welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight" I'm John Oliver.
It's so great so great to be back with you.
Clearly clearly, clearly we have been gone for the last three months.
And you're probably thinking I was on vacation.
That was not, in fact, the case.
Much like Brian Williams, I voluntarily took myself off the air, after the merge, I presented false information to you last year.
Roll the clip.
My theory always was that Hemingway was hung like a hamster, not that there's anything wrong with that.
Oh oh, you're right.
There's absolutely nothing wrong with that.
We googled "hamster penis", and this is what you find.
That's adorable.
I'm embarrassed to say that it turns out that is not, in fact, a hamster penis.
It is a hamster tail.
I would like to truly apologize to you the viewers, to the editorial staff here, and most of all to that hamster.
Because.
.
You deserved better, Niblet.
You deserved much better.
So with that out of the way, we trust, we build.
But let's move on to a quick recap of the week.
It began with a glorious looming scandal in the U.
S.
congress.
Illinois congressman Aaron Schock is being asked a lot of questions right now after redecorating his capitol hill office suite style of the PBS TV series "Downton Abbey.
" Oh, "Downton Abbey".
" That is perfect.
What better way to show you're in touch with your constituents than decorating your office in the manner of a 1920's British aristocrat.
But, le-let's I'm intrigued how "Downton Abbey" -ish is his office? This is Schock's office, bright red, a gleaming chandelier, just like on television, and a vase of pheasant feathers.
Pheasant feathers! Somewhere in Illinois, there's a pheasant freezing his ass off and going, what, you couldn't just pick something up at West Elm? Have you ever heard, have you ever heard of a eucalyptus bundle? Unbelievable! The congressman had some explaining to do.
And explain he did.
Ok.
A couple of things there.
You are definitely an old, crusty white guy if you think Taylor Swift was the first person to say haters gonna hate.
But to be fair to him, quoting "Shake It Off" is probably as close as a congressman can come to saying "hey, go fuck yourself, my office is magnificent!" Haters gonna hate.
Shake it off.
Shake it off, shake it off.
Moving on.
Moving on to what may have been the most spectacularly ill-advised moment in diplomacy this week.
Argentina's embattled president Christina Fernandez is under fire for a tweet during a state visit to China after meeting with the Chinese president.
And if you're thinking, how bad could a tweet from a world leader be? Well, this bad.
Fernandez tried to mimic a Chinese accent by switching r's" with what appeared to be maybe I's in a tweet that translates as "did they only come from lice and petroleum.
Instead of rice and petroleum.
Holy shit.
Lice and petloleum.
That is a level of clueless racism on the Internet you'd expect from a Dartmouth sorority pledge.
And perhaps, you're the worst.
You're the worst.
And perhaps the most amazing thing is that she tweeted this during a vitally important four-day state visit.
They're negotiating 15 major agreements, which include two huge hydroelectric dams in Patagonia, investment in ports through which Argentina exports thousands of ton of soy to China and military hardware.
I have to say it's actually pretty bick of China to just go ahead with their negotiations like nothing had happened.
Because if I were them, at the very least, I would've served president Kirchner a bowl of lice saying "here's your food, it's you know Your funny jokes, that funny joke you said.
Why don't you eat your funny joke? You still owe us billions of dollars, by the way" And finally, finally this week, there was sad news for a true American icon.
RadioShack, the 94-year-old consumer electronics chain, has filed for bankruptcy protection.
Half of its 4,000 stores will be turned into sprint locations.
The others will be shutdown.
You know, it's a rough day when 2,000 new sprint locations is the happy part of the sentence.
Sure, sure, Radioshack has not been in great shape in recent years.
It's easy to forget it once ran ads like this.
So much more than just a store.
The best in America, RadioShack nobody compares to RadioShack.
That is a catchy song, my friend.
If they'd left that on the air, they'd be the most powerful company on earth today.
The death of Radioshack in itself is not surprising.
What is surprising is the glib, jokey tone with which its demise has been discussed over the past year.
If you have the name radio in your corporate name, that's probably not a good sign in 2014.
Is Radioshack doomed to remain a punchline? I actually like Radioshack.
I go there a few times a year.
And I kinda like it, I guess I'm old school.
You must have a very full junk drawer.
It's all I can say.
This is a dying 94-year-old business! At this point, it's like you're sitting across from your grandfather at Thanksgiving dinner and saying: "You know, I don't really see the point of grandpa Fred in 2015.
" Frankly, I'm sort of surprised he still exists.
RadioShack would be well within its rights to be a little hurt at this level of disrespect, which is why we've prepared a farewell message for them, that they should feel free to use.
For nearly a century we at RadioShack had proudly served America, providing you with the highest quality home electronics at the best prices and now sadly it's time for us to say goodbye.
And so we would like to offer this special farewell message to America.
Go fuck yourselves! That's right.
Take a dirty pack of batteries and shove them directly up your ass.
Who sold your parents that remote control car you got for Christmas in 1993 that you love so damn much? RadioShack, motherfuckers, that's who! And remember in 1989, when you needed a cable to plug your Nintendo to the TV, who was there for you? That's right, Radioshack again, assholes.
And now look at you, laughing at our slow painful death.
Well, laugh while you still can, shit heads because one day you too will be obsolete.
One day you too will be left behind in the wake of time ceaseless onslaught.
And when that day comes know that we'll be standing on your god damn grave laughing our asses off.
So America, from all of us here in RadioShack, goodbye and go to hell you filthy animals.
Moving on, moving on.
Our main story tonight: Prescription drugs.
The only ovals that can bring people in the Seattle area joy anymore.
To put it mildly to put it mildly, America takes a lot of these things.
70% of Americans take at least one prescription drug.
More than half of us take two.
Researchers say a record 4 billion prescriptions were written in 2011.
Total drug spending jumped last year by 3% to nearly $330 billion with a "b.
" Wow.
That works out to $1,000 per person on prescription drugs.
Kind of makes you feel like Walter white could've made more money cooking up rheumatoid arthritis medication.
But should this really be that surprising? Cause it's impossible to escape pharmaceutical ads.
You can't turn on the TV without being subjected to an endless stream of sleep-inducing moths, old men getting bonners while varnishing chairs or this.
.
If your bladder is calling the shots, you may have a medical condition called overactive bladder or o.
A.
B.
Again? But we just went.
Okay, okay.
Listen what that woman really needs is a pill to stop her hallucinating anthropomorphic bladders.
You're locked inside a prison of your own mind, Susan! Be gone demon bladder! Be gone! But that's only one small part of pharmaceutical marketing.
You see, drugs aren't like most other products, because you need someone's permission to buy them.
Which is why all drug ads end with the same catchy phrase, ask your doctor if Lunesta is right for you.
Ask your doctor about Myrbetriq.
- Ask your doctor - Ask your doctor ask your doctor "Ask your doctor.
" Three words you're either hearing in a commercial or saying to your coworker when he asks you if the mole on his back look cancerous I don't know, gene! Ask your doctor! All I said was "how was your weekend?" It's probably fine.
Drug companies know, the doctors hold all the real power in the prescription drug business which is why, while they spend nearly $4 billion a year marketing directly to us they spend an estimated $24 billion a year marketing directly to doctors.
In fact, one analysis claimed that, in 2013 nine out of the top 10 drug makers spent more on marketing than they did on research.
Drug companies are a bit like high school boyfriends they're much more concerned with getting inside you than being effective once they're in there.
So we thought we thought Don't think about that too much.
We thought We thought we'd take a look.
We thought we'd take a look at how all that marketing money gets spent which turns out to be surprisingly difficult.
It's a pretty secretive world.
You usually only get tantalizing glimpses into during lawsuits, years after the fact.
For instance, in 2012, the government settled a case with the makers of asthma medication Advair over-allegedly irresponsible marketing practices.
Which meant, for the first time, we were able to see this video of a 2001 Advair sales meeting.
Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Darryl Baker, Simon Joades, Ralph Yaats and Ken Saima.
Y'all ready for this.
What the fuck? That was for an asthma medication! And they were treating it like an NBA pregame show! Please welcome he's 59, white, he likes turkey sandwiches and his wife's name is Karen.
Ladies and gentlemen say hello to Daryl "boom-boom" Baker! The audience in that room were pharmaceutical reps, the foot soldiers in every company's drug-marketing efforts.
Now, drug companies will tell you reps are there to educate doctors.
But behind closed doors, the message can be a little different.
There are people in this room who are going to make an ungodly sum of money selling Advair.
And you know who you are! Ungodly.
That would barely be an appropriate tone if they were trying to get cereal into people's bodies, let alone drugs.
Now, you don't need to see the people whooping in that room to know what they look like because pharmaceutical sales reps are famously young, attractive people.
This is so widely known, it's been a sitcom punchline for years.
Today's the day that pharmaceutical reps show up to peddle new drugs.
And at sacred heart, that means one thing: Julie's here.
If something's a joke on "Scrubs" you know it's common knowledge.
That show didn't do a lot of arcane.
Hey, what is it with phlebotomists and French cuisine, am I right? You are right, Turk.
We're great friends.
The problem comes, the problem comes if those reps don't understand the effects of the drugs they're pushing.
Listen to one former rep describe his first training session.
I was in a room with 21 classmates and two trainers, and I was the only one with a science background.
In fact, on the first day of training I taught my class and my instructors, the very basic process by which two braincells communicate.
So essentially, pharma reps are like the cast of "Grey's Anatomy.
" They're young, they're hot and they have virtually no medical training whatsoever.
To be fair, most doctors will probably take that into consideration the problem comes when some don't.
I even had one physician who would often bring out a patient chart if she was having a difficult patient or whatever the case is and she'd bring out a patient chart and be like, ok, Kathleen, I've tried this.
I've tried this.
What do you recommend here in terms of tweaking"? And I'm sitting here thinking I'm a political science major and you're asking me "you know what to prescribe for this patient?" Yeah, exactly.
Because the only question a poli sci major is really qualified to answer is was it weird having to move back in with your parents after college? Now if you're thinking If you're thinking if you're thinking at these points if you're thinking why do doctors let drug reps into their offices at all? Well, they don't come empty handed.
They'll often show up with free samples.
And, even better, free chicken parm.
Whoever said there is no such thing as a free lunch, hasn't worked in a doctor's office.
There are some offices that advertise in the front desk job description, free lunch everyday, not because the doctors are paying for it but because the drug reps are bringing it in everyday.
Free lunch every day! That might not seem like a big deal, but think about it.
Lunch is awesome.
If Charlie Manson brought me a free lunch every day, I'd at least listen to his sales pitch on forehead swastikas.
I don't think it's for me, Charlie.
But keep talking.
It's delicious.
And drug companies don't do this to be friendly.
They do it because they know it works.
In fact, they know a terrifying amount about nearly every prescription coming out of a doctor's office.
Every time a patient goes into a pharmacy to get a prescription filled.
.
The information is sold to drug companies who send it to laptops out in the field.
So we see everything that the doctor does.
How many prescriptions he prescribes of our medication and the competitor's medication.
If the computer shows a doctor's not prescribing as promised all's you have to do is say hey, you're banging out a lot of prescriptions for the competitor's drug and not mine.
What's going on? Yeah, what's going on, Carl? You seem to be making medical decisions based on your best judgment.
I brought you a meatball sub with chips, Carl! Don't fuck me on this! Don't fuck me, Carl! With this level of pressure, unsurprisingly, drug companies have, in the past, crossed the line, pushing doctors to prescribe pills for non-FDA approved uses.
That's called "going off label".
And here's a horrifying example involving Astrazeneca, who the government charged with going off-label with Seroquel, an anti-psychotic with dangerous side effects.
The allegations, which were very troubling, were that they were taking a drug that was really approved for fairly narrow uses, bipolar disorders and schizophrenia, and marketing it for everything from sleeplessness to depression and dementia.
Here's the thing you can't just give people potentially dangerous drugs and see what happens.
You're a fortune 500 company, not a white guy with dreadlocks at burning man.
Astrazeneca denied any wrong doing, but it paid half a billion dollars to settle the lawsuit.
And if you're thinking, well, that's just one company with one drug, you should know that just about every major drug company has paid money to settle similar charges.
Johnson & Johnson paid $2.
2billion.
Eli Lilly paid $1.
4 billion.
Pfizer and its subsidiary paid $2.
3 billion.
And Glaxo Smithkline paid out a record $3 billion to settle accusations that it had, among other things, pushed Wellbutrin, an antidepressant, as a cure for weight gain and sexual dysfunction or, as one former drug rep describes the pitch it was a quick zinger for your doc, to tell your doc, hey doc, remember Wellbutrin is the happy, horny, skinny drug? Ok.
That's not just irresponsible, that's copyright infringement because there is only one happy, horny, skinny drug, and that is crystal meth and that's a fact.
That's a fact right there.
And for that increasing number of doctors who will refuse to even see drug reps, the companies have one other trick up their sleeve simply paying doctors to talk to other doctors about their products over dinner.
And that sounds ridiculous, but not as ridiculous as the special ego-boosting title they use.
I essentially say to a doctor, hey, our company has identified you to be a thought leader.
Would you like to be a thought leader for our company? The doctor will normally almost every time say yes.
Of course they say yes! That's an appealing phrase.
And doctors like to be called thought leaders in the same way Brendan Fraser likes being called two-time academy award winner Brendan Fraser.
It's clearly not true, but it's got a lovely ring to it.
Look how happy it makes him! Give the guy a gold, look how happy he is! In fact, the problem is for a position described as thought leader not a lot of thought goes into the job.
In many cases, the slides and the content and script are actually prepared by the drug company.
Its not always clear to the audience that this is material that was really scripted completely by the drug company that was paying the doctor to give the talk.
Ok.
So if you're a doctor just regurgitating a script, you're not really a "thought leader" so much as you are a "thought sayer".
Abraham Lincoln was a thought leader.
You're more like the animatronic Lincoln at Disneyland.
Now, to be fair, Glaxosmithkline will no longer pay for "thought leaders".
And the industry in general claims that they reforming.
In fact, a spokeswoman for pharma, the drug industry's trade group, has even bragged about the tough new restrictions they put in place.
In our pharma code, we say that pharmaceutical representatives can bring an occasional meal, a modest meal.
Turkey sandwiches, pizza.
I don't want to just focus on turkey.
Maybe we could have ham sandwiches.
But modest meals, not steak in a restaurant.
Oh, no, no, no.
Not in a restaurant.
Although we'd probably allow a steak at an outback steakhouse.
Because, come on, that's not a great steak.
It's basically a chunk of horse meat with grill marks drawn on it with a sharpie.
No doctor's getting ethically compromised by that.
That's what we saying.
This voluntary pharma code is I guess a step in the right direction.
Let's see how one of their members has been abiding by it.
The justice department filed a civil fraud lawsuit against the Swiss drug maker Novartis, accusing it of paying kickbacks and lavishly spending on doctors, including taking some out to Hooters in exchange for prescribing its drugs.
Don't worry, research has shown the best medical decisions are always made with an Arizona state college football game blasting in the background.
But at least Hooters qualifies as a modest meal.
They allegedly also paid doctors to speak at places like l2o in Chicago a restaurant whose Zagat review read and I quote: "Tabs may bring tears to your eyes, so many say it's for special occasions only unless, of course, you go on someone else's dime.
" I'm guessing at the end of the meal, the waiter came over and asked: "Separate checks, or is one person buying your influence?" "Just one is it? Oh, that's very nice of him.
There you go.
" And at least they were there for that one.
The suit says many doctors took payments for speeches they never even gave.
All of which Novartis has denied, saying that everything they did had a legitimate business purpose, and besides, speaker programs like theirs are an accepted and customary practice in the industry, which is kind of the whole point: Even in its best form, hiring doctors as paid spokesmen seems like a conflict of interest.
And multiple reports have found that many drugs top prescribers are also often getting money from that drug's company, which is worrying because we trust doctors.
When you see Rihanna trying to get you to drink coconut water, you know she's getting money to do that, and you take that into account, and you think to yourself "I'm glad you're getting paid, ri-ri.
But I'm actually not going to drink that" because you and I both know that coconut water tastes like cereal milk mixed with bull semen.
So we both know that.
So I'm going to take that into account when I make this decision for myself.
I know this has all been disheartening, but luckily, there is actually some good news here.
A new clause in the affordable care act will for the first time ever, allow average citizens to search a federal website to see all of the perks given to physicians by pharmaceutical companies.
Now, I know what you're thinking.
A federal website? Made up of a list of doctors? Let me command-t up a new tab right now! But this website is actually kind of fascinating.
The first batch of numbers are now online, covering the last five months of 2013.
And you can, and absolutely should, go online and look-up your doctor at this address.
And see what you find.
Maybe you'll find your doctor did a little research for a drug company, which is probably fine.
Or maybe, as Propublica did when they looked at pharma payments, you'll find a doctor who's earned more than $1 million delivers promotional talks and consulting or maybe, like we did, you'll find a doctor who got food and beverages one day worth four cents.
Four cents! I have to know what that meal was! Because the only way a four-cent meal makes sense is if that doctor is a mouse! The only way it makes sense! Whip the cheese on your whiskers before you prescribe me anything! The point is, there is information on this database you should know.
And this should really be just the beginning.
If drug companies really want to regain our trust, maybe they should let us know the effect their money has on doctors in the only way they know how.
Have you noticed anything strange about your doctor? Does he seem happier than usual these days? Is he quick to prescribe drugs you think you might not need? You know what? One more actually.
Does the waiting room feed your surprisingly attractive not-sick-looking people? Well, that might be because your doctor has been taking pharmaceutical money.
Pharmaceutical money takes many forms from free lunches to speaking fees.
Here's how it works.
Money combines with the cash receptors in your doctor's wallet to create fast-acting financial relief.
So your doctor can rest easy and enjoy life.
Common side effects of doctors taking money may include: Chronic over-prescription, unusually heavy cash flow, dependency of free samples, inflammation of confidence affluenza, and an increase tendency to suggest off-label prescriptions which intern can cause hearth attack, stroke, depression, lost in feeling in arms and legs seizures, blurred visions, grinding of the teeth, temporary deafness total blindness, numbness, sudden bursts of rage, reduction of trust angry erections lasting over 17 hours, and death.
Ask your doctors today if he's taking pharmaceutical company money.
Then ask the doctor what the money is for.
Ask your doctor if he's taking any money from the company who makes the drugs he just prescribes for you and then ask yourself if you're satisfied with that answer.
Pharmaceutical money ask your doctor if his taking it is right for you.
Finally finally tonight, a quick word about Ecuador.
Ecuador's president is Rafael Correa, a charismatic leader who once a week does an address to the nation he calls "citizen link" where, as you'll see, some amazing things can happen.
Yes.
That is how a president should address a nation in fact, every presidential speech should now on have somewhere within it, in brackets, clown enters.
So these addresses can clearly be pretty fun.
Unfortunately, they can also take a darker turn, yes, darker even than a clown because Correa frequently uses them as a platform to attack people he feels insulted by.
On more than one occasion, he's ripped up newspapers that have criticized him.
Because, I guess, he doesn't realize that newspapers tend to print more than one copy.
And last week, it got even worse, when for some reason, he decided to start calling out individuals, by name, who'd been abusing him on Twitter.
Another little angel.
He is @tuiterovendido.
His real name is Johan Arturo Aicedo Rovira.
So young, what a shame.
He's 18 years old, very young.
Oh, 18.
So young, so immature unlike me the 51-year-old head of state who is currently attacking him on public.
Now, to be fair to him, that 18 year old had expressed a hope that Correa would die.
But Correa should have people who take care of that sort of thing for him.
Rather than spending, like he did, nearly 15 minutes calling out online trolls, even attacking one individual's Facebook page.
The little angel, and I didn't even know his name.
He was just Crudo Ecuador.
He's got a whole bunch of trash on his page.
Yes, of course, he has.
That's what Facebook is, it's pages full of trash.
Stop Googling yourself.
You're president of Ecuador! He even explicitly encouraged his supporters to tweet back at his attackers.
We are more.
Many more.
We will respond in the exact same way, my friends.
If they send one tweet, we'll send 10,000, because we are 10,000 to one.
How are you now getting involved in a Twitter war? You do know no one has ever won one of those,right? It's impossible.
Look, look president Correa, if you're this sensitive, then Twitter and Facebook might not be for you.
And to be honest, being a world leader might not be for you, unless you can build up your tolerance for personal abuse.
Trust me, I've been through it.
I used to be very sensitive, and then I became a comedian, and got insulted so much I can't feel anything anymore.
It's made me stronger as a person.
Emptier and stronger.
So you don't need less abuse.
You need more.
You need more abuse to tip you over the edge.
So allow me to help you right now.
Hey president Correa, nice smug smile you've got.
You look like a used Jeremy Piven salesman.
You look like every real housewife's third husband.
In fact, you're the only president for whom this might be the single most dignified moment of your presidency.
Oh, and by the way, what the hell is happening here? That's a necklace made out of penises.
That's not even a joke! That's dick-lace around your neck.
.
And don't get offended by this, president Correa.
Because if your skin was any thinner, you'd be a taint.
So don't get offended.
Oh oh! Uh-oh, uh-oh.
I think we all know what that music means.
A psychotic clown is about to tell me my time is up.
But I would encourage you to tweet insults directly to president Correa's @mashirafael Twitter handle all week to help him get over his oversensitivity.
That's our show! Thank you so much for watching good night! Yes! Ok.
All right.
So you don't feel good.
That's what I'm getting.
There we go.
How strong are your teeth? So when I had my color scheme done, I found out I'm actual an autumn and not a winter.
So that's why I changed my whole wardrobe to answer your question.

Welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight.
" I'm John Oliver.
Thank you for being with us.
Just time for a quick recap of this week.
And we begin, we begin tonight in Yemen.
Home to 26 million Yemeni people and 27 million American drones.
For years Yemen has worked closely with the U.
S.
On counter terrorism issues.
Unfortunately, their government collapsed recently.
And this week, things got even worse.
The United States is closing down its embassy in Yemen.
The state department has evacuated dozens of diplomatic officials from its compound in sana while urging all Americans to leave that country immediately.
Yes, if you're an American diplomat in Yemen, evacuate immediately.
And if you're an American tourist in Yemen, what the fuck were you doing taking a vacation in Yemen? Bad choice! A rebel group called the Houthis now appears to be in charge in Yemen.
So who are they? And can we work with them? Frankly, when you speak to them, talk to them.
They're actually quite polite and pleasant oh, lovely?! How lovely! Rebels who are polite and pleasant.
You know, like Drake.
This sounds like it's tremendous news, unless I interrupted you a little too early.
They're actually quite polite and pleasant.
But one of their slogans is "death to America.
" Ok then, ok.
That is completely unacceptable unless of course they're referring to the 1970's soft rock band America in which case I totally support them.
Oh, you've been through a desert on a horse with no name? Did it ever occur to you it's your job to name the horse? That's on you! Call it cinnamon and ride back.
Now, you might notice he said, "one of their" slogans.
And that's because the full slogan reads, "god is great, death to America, death to Israel, curse the Jews, victory to Islam.
" Which is horrifying, but, still slightly less odious than "I'm lovin' it.
" Now also, there is some potentially good news here not only are the Houthis against Al-qaeda, but they may actually be trying to moderate their tone.
I interviewed their leader here a couple of days ago and he was very adamant about trying to have better relations with the U.
S.
He even went so far as to pretty much repudiate their slogan which you know include "death to America" and say that's just a slogan, we don't mean it literally.
Oh, ok then! Ok! I guess at this point the phrase "death to America" has lost all it's meaning.
It's like, "we should really hang out sometime," or "I'm sorry," or "I love you.
" They're just things to say, you know? Moving on to other major news this week.
We saw the worldwide release of "Fifty Shades of Grey.
" It's done surprisingly well, despite the fact that Jamie Dornan is not my Christian.
Hashtag #notmychristian.
The media.
.
The media has been really excited about this all week.
Which makes sense.
Because who wouldn't be excited to watch scintillating dialogue such as this? That's impressive.
A girl scout? Um, no.
Organized group activities aren't really my thing.
So what is your thing? I don't know.
Books? My penis just yawned.
I will say I will say I will say I will say this movie has actually provided a fascinating glimpse into the attitudes of various countries.
The U.
K.
Gave it their equivalent of an "NC-17" rating, while Malaysia banned it from theaters, calling it "more pornography than movie.
" Although, on the basis of that clip we saw, it's actually more home depot commercial than pornography.
However, there is one country that went in a different direction.
Here in the U.
S.
, "Fifty Shades of Grey" is rated "R", meaning the kids under 17 must be accompanied by an adult.
But the French are giving the green light to kids as young as 12.
Yes, France is allowing 12-year-olds to watch "Fifty Shades of Grey.
" That is maybe the frenchest thing imaginable other than a croissant sitting in a café eating a baguette.
Or maybe a mime feeding invisible cheese to his invisible mistress with a visible erection.
So just.
.
Very French.
.
Just just have an interest, for me, what was the reasoning for such a rating? A French official says "Fifty Shades" isn't a film that can shock a lot of people, get this, the decision wasn't unanimous, but that's only because some there thought there shouldn't be any age restriction at all.
Wow! So the implication there is that even 12-year-olds in France will find the movie tame.
"Yes, yes, it was an amusing erotic trifle, I suppose.
" "The love making was passable but, belt play is a little pedestrian, don't you think?" N'est-ce pas? Finally finally this week, a little update on Ecuador.
You may remember last week, we poked fun at their president, Rafael Correa who'd been calling out his Twitter and Facebook critics by name, and encouraging supporters to attack them online.
Well, it turns out, he saw what we did, and was not thrilled.
And the reason I know this is and this is true, the president of Ecuador has been shit-talking me on Twitter all week long, saying and this is true.
Among other things, he has said "these gringo talk shows are as unpleasant as a diuretic.
" And, "do British comedians exist? Are you all sure about this?" And, hey ha-ha, he's right.
British comedian is an oxymoron.
Much like "jumbo shrimp" or "Ecuadorian president who prioritizes his time wisely.
" But it actually gets worse.
Just yesterday, Correa gave his weekly televised address to the nation, and he was still annoyed about this.
With international backing, there is a funny campaign that says that we are against humor because now they will show you some twitters that we want to stop.
Imagine that.
Me against humor? But my jokes are known worldwide! Let me stop you there that's almost true.
But it's not so much that your jokes are known worldwide.
As that you are increasingly becoming known worldwide as a joke.
That's the That's the thing.
That's the But look, I'd stop this I'd stop making fun of Correa's oversensitivity, were it not for the fact he has a history of stifling dissent in Ecuador.
He's clamped down on journalists in both ways large and small, from suing a newspaper that said he was acting like a dictator, to humiliating a young female reporter who asked him a tough question, calling her a "horrible fatty".
And "fatty" is one of the least presidential words imaginable.
It's right up there with "awesome sauce" and "finger blast.
" You just you don't want to hear that from a world leader.
There is one thing, however, I would like to correct from last week.
You may remember, I showed a clip of this clown during Correa's speech.
Well, it turned out that was actually no random clown.
That was Tiko-Tiko, a beloved children's entertainer.
Tiko-tiko was upset and called me "grotesque.
" And when a clown calls you "grotesque", it hurts.
So, I will apologize to Tiko-Tiko, and I'll tell you why.
Because I do not want this man angry with me.
That is what is playing in the background when a psychopath ties you up in a basement and tortures you with dental instruments.
I'm sorry, Tiko-Tiko.
Please don't make me saw my leg off to escape you.
And now, this.
And now, "Last Week Tonight" asks: "How is this still a thing?" This week, the "sports illustrated" swimsuit issue.
How is this still a thing? "Sports illustrated," the preferred magazines of dads and the crappers since 1954, highlighting great moments in sport, from the miracle on ice to that one time Vince Lombardi got punched in the balls by the Green Bay Packers.
And every February S.
I.
Released its most popular annual issue to a creepy chorus of approval.
All right, check it out, Mike Jerrick, look at the screen.
Yes! Ew! The swimsuit issue is coming out next Tuesday on newsstands.
It is a great, great magazine.
Ew! And it's even worse when the models are in the studio.
Will you be my Valentine? I definitely want the chocolate but there's a little bit of a waiting list.
Thank you so much.
Courtney, I love you, baby.
Courtney is Darren wife, she is expecting her first child any moment now.
The swimsuit edition was created by editor André Laguerre in 1964 to boost sales between sports seasons and it was a perfect expression of the 1960's, a time of such rampant casual sexism that it eventually gave birth to the sexual harassment in the workplace film.
Hey have you two chicks wanna get knocked up John and I glad to help you but as society moved on the swimsuit issue not only hang around it became the magazine's key selling point.
- You get basketball, football, tennis - And? And the famous swimsuit issue! Revealing 1991 swimsuit issue and the free sneaker phone.
- The swimsuit issue.
.
- That's the icing on the cake.
Ew! And the swimsuit issue is still moving copies it sold more than 800,000 copies on Newsstands in 2013, reportedly more than 10 times what a regular issue of "sports illustrated" sold.
Which raises the question: "Why?" Sure, at one point it was tantalizing to receive a once-annual printed magazine of scanltly clad women.
But do people not understand they can now just type naked ladies into the Internet? And see what Google throw at them? Even S.
I seems to know it loses relevance.
Which maybe why every year like clockwork they provoke an attention grabbing controversy whether it's using other countries' citizens as props.
Some are calling them at best culturally insensitive.
Objectify women with an actual object.
Barbie, yes Barbie is on the cover of the swim suit issue and as you can imagine, there is outrage.
Or this year baiting the media with this bullshit.
Some are questioning whatever the cover is too nude is it too risky? When the line goes this far, what's left? The vagina.
The vagina is what's left in one of these years in an act of desperation.
S.
I.
Will probably put one on the cover.
And until that time, it's left to the rest of us to ask ourselves: The sports illustrated swimsuit issue.
How is this still a thing? Moving on.
Moving on.
Our main story tonight is tobacco.
It used to be a cornerstone of American life.
It was how we knew sex was over before the female orgasm was invented.
Even if you didn't smoke, you couldn't escape those who did.
Cigarettes were in the hands of trusted newsmen, beloved cartoon characters, and cowboys in TV commercials.
You've had your supper and coffee.
The horses are settling down.
You settle back.
You start to think about Saturday night in town.
Come to where the flavor is.
Come to Marlboro country.
That of course, is the iconic Marlboro man.
As synonymous with ruggedness and freedom as he was with dying from smoking-related diseases.
Because, and this is true that's what happened to at least four of the actors who played him.
Four dead actors! It's like if there was a gas leak on "whose line is it anyway?" Why did you have to pass the dish to each other? Why? Look, you can admit it, it is weird seeing those cigarette ads now and that's because, for the past half-century, America has steadily limited how tobacco companies are able to behave.
We've put warning labels on packaging and banned cigarette ads from TV, all while tobacco executives defended themselves against hard public health questions.
It's true the babies born from women who smoke are smaller, but they're just as healthy as babies born from women who do not smoke.
And some women would prefer having smaller babies.
Yeah, oh, you heard it, pregnant ladies.
Enough cigarettes, and you're pretty much shooting out Lego babies.
They fit in "Star Wars" toys! Who wouldn't want that? That's adorable! By the late 1990's, the regulations were such that tobacco companies here voluntarily retired not just the Marlboro man, but also Joe Camel, who people had ridiculously accused of being targeted at children just because he was an adorable cartoon camel who dressed like the Fonz and smoked.
All these restrictions helped lower smoking rates in the U.
S.
from about 43% in 1965 to 18% today which you would assume would decimate the American tobacco industry.
Which is what makes this clip from 2008 so surprising.
Tobacco is what you might call smoking hot.
Is this the best time ever to be a tobacco farmer? Probably the most profitable.
Wow, it's an aging product that's decreasing in popularity, and yet somehow, it just can't stop making money.
It's basically the agricultural equivalent of U2.
Now, now one of the reasons, one of the reasons for this might be that while Americans are smoking less, in some parts of the world, people are smoking more, to an occasionally shocking extent.
You might remember this viral video.
A video of this 2-year-old boy he's just puffing away on a cigarette in Indonesia and it's gone completely viral.
The mom says he is completely addicted and if he doesn't get the smokes, he gets angry he'll start banging his head on the wall.
Yeah, of course he gets mad when you take away his smokes.
He thinks they're gone.
He doesn't have object permanence yet! The smoking baby was such a media sensation, news crews from across the world attempted to find him.
Just across this bridge lies the small fishing village that is home to the smoking baby.
We briefly caught up with Aldi and his mother Diana at the airport flanked by a local TV crew.
Are you Aldi? Hi, I'm Dan.
How you doing, little dude? Holy shit, just look at that kid.
He's his own rat pack.
All he's missing is three other kids dressed like him and a casino.
And and this is where this story gets really interesting.
Because that baby's favorite brand of cigarettes was "A Mild," which is owned by Philip Morris International, the company that sells Philip Morris brands everywhere but America.
They, like other multinational companies, have flocked to Indonesia, a market where 2/3 of adult males smoke, and there are very few restrictions.
And I do mean very few.
This really brings home the point.
This is the entrance to a school, and come with me.
Just a few steps away from the entrance, there is this kiosk that is sponsored by Marlboro light.
And at this kiosk, a student can come and buy an individual cigarette.
They're only a dime a piece, and they even have a lighter on a string.
Well, of course the lighter's on a string! What kind of irresponsible cigarette vendor outside a school would let a child walk away with a lighter? They're dangerous.
Think about it! Just think about that! And look, Indonesia is far from the only country where Philip Morris International, or P.
M.
I.
has expanded.
They own seven of the world's top 15 international brands, including Marlboro.
And recently, Marlboro has boosted its global market share, thanks to its worldwide: "Don't be a maybe, be Marlboro" campaign.
And if you're thinking, what the fuck does "don't be a maybe" mean?, please let this video by the people responsible for the campaign explain it to you.
As a brand, Marlboro was not resonating with adult smokers, even though its values of freedom, authenticity, and master of destiny were.
Smokers missed the essence of the cowboy, which led us to our opportunity.
Eliminate the word "maybe" from our smokers vocabulary, to become the catalyst that inspires smokers from just thinking about life to taking the lead in their life.
To live the Marlboro values.
To be true, bold, and forever forward.
That is a pile of horseshit.
Even.
.
Think about it.
Just think about this.
Even Don Draper looks at that ad and goes: "Pull it back a little bit these are cigarettes we're talking about, not Jesus.
" Now, countries can try to counteract the influence of that kind of marketing.
But if tobacco companies feel too threatened, they 'll put them through legal hell.
Let me take you on a world tour.
Of how they attack laws intended to protect public health, because it's kind of amazing.
Let's start in Australia.
In 2011, they passed a "plain packaging" law.
And what that means is this.
Cigarettes come in packaging like this.
Pretty drab coloring.
Messaging the Australian government writes, pictures it chooses, the brand name they really relegated to the bottom.
Australia's plain packaging law banned tobacco-company branding from packaging, and replaced it with upsetting photos.
Such as the toe tag on a corpse,the cancerous mouth, the nightmarish eyeball, or the diseased lung.
Now, ye-yes, I'm pretty sure I would find a healthy lung disgusting.
But, but that thing does look like you're trying to breathe through baked ziti.
So just take it down, just take it down perhaps unsurprisingly, since this law was implemented, the total consumption of tobacco and cigarettes in Australia fell to record lows.
And nightmares about eyeballs have risen to record highs.
Take it down! Take down the demon eye! To get these laws, though, Australia has had to run a gauntlet of lawsuits.
First, two tobacco companies sued Australia in its highest court to stop them.
The result was a little surprising, as Australia's Attorney General let everyone know.
I'm delighted to be able to say that we have won that legal action, and just as some icing on the cake, it seems that the big tobacco companies will also be required to pay the government's costs.
Yes! Score one, score one for the little guy.
Even if that little guy is the sixth largest country in the world in terms of land mass.
And the tobacco companies didn't just lose.
The judges called their case "delusive," "unreal" and "synthetic", and said they had "fatal defects".
Which sounds a little like the early reviews of NBC "The Slap.
" What is this thing? How long am I supposed to watch it for? Which one is the slap? But Australia's legal troubles were just beginning.
Because then Philip Morris Asia got involved.
The company is threatening to take the Australian government to an international court and says that removing brands from cigarette packs will lower the value of its trademark and intellectual property.
That's right a company was able to sue a country over a public health measure, through an international court.
How the fuck is that possible? Well it's really a simple explanation.
They did it by digging up a 1993 trade agreement between Australia and Hong Kong, which had a provision that Australia couldn't seize Hong Kong-based companies' property.
So nine months before the lawsuit started, P.
M.
I.
Put its Australian business in the hands of its Hong Kong-based Philip Morris Asia division.
And then they sued, claiming that the seized "property" in question were the trademarks on their cigarette packages.
And you've gotta give it to them, that is impressive.
Someone should really give those lawyers a pat on the back.
And a punch in the face.
But, a pat on the back first.
Pat then punch.
Pat-punch.
They need a pat-punch.
Little pat, big punch, that's what they need.
But wait, there's more here.
Because you'll never guess who else is coming after Australia.
Three governments, Honduras, the Dominican Republic, and Ukraine have filed complaints with the world trade organization against Australia's plain packaging laws.
That's right Ukraine is charging Australia with hurting its tobacco exports.
Something which was a bit of a surprise to a Ukrainian member of parliament.
When I first read about the position of the government, it seems to me a joke, because we have a zero trade exchange between Australia and Ukraine of any tobacco goods.
Zero trade! Zero! So Ukraine is inserting themselves into something they have nothing to do with.
They're taking the Kanye west approach to international trade disputes.
They just just wiggling in there.
The truth is as you probably guessed by now tobacco companies have encouraged these suits, even covering some of the legal costs.
Meaning the tobacco industry is treating Ukraine like a stage parent treats a child in a beauty pageant.
"No, Brandy wants to do it! Yes, I paid for her outfit and pushed her on the stage, but this was all her idea.
And I swear to god, Brandy, if you drop that flaming baton, you are fucking walking home.
" You walk home, Brandy! And tobacco companies aren't just going after big countries like Australia.
Philip Morris has also launched a legal challenge against the small south American country of Uruguay for damaging its business prospects.
Uruguay has a population of just 3.
5 million people and is a relatively tiny cigarette market.
That's right Philip Morris International is currently suing Uruguay.
A country you think about so little that you didn't even notice that that's not Uruguay.
This is Uruguay.
The background here, nine years ago, Uruguay started introducing increasingly larger health warnings.
Smoking rates dropped and Uruguayans liked the laws, with 68% of smokers saying they should be stronger.
But just because they wanted it hasn't stopped P.
M.
I.
From suing them for the past five years.
And that's a lot for a small country to take on.
Luckily, they've had help.
Uruguay has received the support of the world health organization and the pan American health organization, as well as the mayor of New York city, Michael Bloomberg, who donated $500,000 for payment of attorneys' fees.
The legal fees were getting so expensive they had to take money from Michael Bloomberg.
On the scale of how shitty that's got to feel, it's just barely higher than borrowing money from your ex-girlfriend's, current boyfriend's stepdad.
And if forcing Uruguay to do that was not bad enough, let me tell you what Philip Morris International has done to Togo.
Togo is one of the 10 poorest countries on earth.
And they recently unveiled some new tobacco laws.
Togo is setting conditions on the sale of tobacco.
Starting on September 1, 2014, packs of cigarettes sold in Togo must bear warnings in French, Ewé and kabyè about the health risks associated with the consumption of tobacco.
Now, at first, written warnings sound great.
Until you learn that 40% of the adult population of Togo is illiterate.
Which is why some members of the Togolese government wanted something more like Australia's "ziti lung" packaging.
Take it down.
Take it down.
It's still disgusting.
But when they got wind of this, Philip Morris International a company with annual net revenues of $80 billion basically threatened to sue Togo, whose entire G.
D.
P.
Is $4.
3 billion.
And when your G.
D.
P.
Is only a couple of billion more than the box office of "avatar," a protracted legal case is not really what you need.
We actually reached out to Togo and asked to see their correspondence with the tobacco companies, and they gave us this letter from P.
M.
I.
We had to translate it from French, but it was worth it.
Because this thing is almost comically appalling.
It informs Togo that plain packaging laws would result in "an incalculable amount of international trade litigation," suggesting Togo would lose any legal challenge by citing, among other things, an Australian high court decision which they write "concluded that plain packaging constitutes a substantial privation of property rights.
" Now, the court case they're referring to is the one from earlier.
You remember the one tobacco companies lost so badly they had to cover the court costs.
And yet.
.
They quote the one judge in that case who ruled in favor of tobacco ignoring the other six who called their case, if you'll remember, "delusive","unreal" and "synthetic", and saying it had "fatal defects".
That's like when a shitty movie engineers a good review out of a bad one.
Like "Mortdecai is a pile of dot-dot-dot great.
" This letter is bullshit! And yet Togo, justifiably terrified by threats of billion-dollar settlements, backed down from a public health law that many people wanted.
And it's not just Togo.
British American tobacco sent a similar letter to Namibia.
And one of their subsidiaries sent one to the Solomon Islands, a country with a population of 600,000.
At this point, it's safe to say, if you live in an apartment with at least two other people and you ask one of them to please smoke outside, you can look forward to a letter from a tobacco company, very soon and look I could get angry and I could call tobacco companies assholes, or monsters, or open sores on Satan's dick, but instead, instead, instead let's rise above it and let's try and broker peace.
Because it's clear what each side wants: Countries want to warn their citizens about the health dangers of smoking tobacco.
Tobacco companies want to be able to present branded images they've spent time and money to cultivate.
So may I suggest a compromise? I present to you the new face of Marlboro Jeff, the diseased lung in a cowboy hat.
We are offering Jeff to you, Philip Morris International, to use as you wish.
Put him on your billboards.
Put him on some ads.
In fact, and don't be mad we've already started doing that for you.
This is an actual billboard that we've put up in Uruguay of Jeff, the diseased lung.
That is in Montevideo right now.
And people seem to like it there! Of course they like it.
Of course they like it.
Everyone loves Jeff the diseased lung in a cowboy hat! Oh, one more thing.
To be completely honest, we didn't just do it in Uruguay.
Because we also, and don't be mad we made some Jeff-branded t-shirts and we shipped them to Togo yesterday, where they've been quite a hit.
And if you don't believe me, check this out.
Marlboro, Jeff's already out there! You just need to claim him.
Our lawyers, unlike yours will not sue.
And I know our viewers would love to help you get the message out there.
In fact you can tweet about Jeff using the Hashtag #jeffwecan to get him trending worldwide and get P.
M.
I.
'S attention.
Post Jeff's photo on Google Plus and tag him "Marlboro,".
Which might push him to the top of Marlboro's Google image search.
We can do this, everyone! Don't be a maybe about this.
In fact.
.
In fact, who here would like to meet Jeff? Let's bring Jeff out! Come on out here, Jeff! It's Jeff! It's Jeff, everyone! It's Jeff the diseased lung, look at him, Marlboro he's not a maybe! He's not a maybe because he's definitely suffering from emphysema.
Aren't you, Jeff? Classic Jeff! And guess what, P.
M.
I.
? Even thought and I can not stress it enough you do not market to children kids love Jeff too! Don't you, kids? What do you say, Marlboro? Let's make Jeff happen! That's our show.
See you next week.
Good night! Jeff, Jeff, Jeff, Jeff! 

Welcome, welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight"! I'm John Oliver.
Thank you for joining us! Just time for a quick recap of the week.
And we begin in Greece.
A country of and in ruins.
Now, you may remember, Greece nearly went bankrupt a while ago, after years of financial mismanagement.
And the rest of Europe has had to angrily bail it out.
Now, the terms of those loans were pretty harsh, and the new Greek government has been attempting to renegotiate them and this Friday, there was a breakthrough.
Greece finally has the financial lifeline it desperately needed to avoid a disaster.
Euro zone negotiators have agreed to a four month extension plan of the country $273 billion bailout program.
And that sound pretty good.
But in exchange, Greece did had to admit that mousakka is just disgusting potato lasagna.
Nobody wants it.
Now now, if you're wondering why Europe agreed to that deal, it's because they pretty much had to.
If Greece collapses, it may take the whole European single currency down with it.
A lot depends on Greece at the moment, so on Friday, their new finance minister tried to reassure people, in the greekest possible way.
Ok.
Ok.
That's not that reassuring for two reasons.
First, everybody in Ulysses' crew dies in that story, and Ithaca falls to absolute shit in his absence.
But secondly, is that a popped collar? Because if you're trying to get an entire continent to trust you, it's not a great idea to show up looking like Pitbull's uncle.
I have to say, for a guy overseeing an economy on the edge of Armageddon, he's pretty laid back.
He was even cracking jokes in the press conference.
That is a cocky attitude.
Your country is on the verge of bankruptcy and you're acting like a strip-club manager giving a speech at his retirement party.
Enough of this self-congratulation.
The polls are getting cold lady, so get back out there, Bambi.
Look, clearly he's a bit slimy.
Here's the problem though.
The whole world's economy depends on this guy.
And the more you find out about him, the scarier that seems.
It's not his plan nor his left-wing rhetoric that has got tongues wagging in Europe.
It's his informal style.
In London this week, he unveiled an edgy look, more biker than finance minister.
What are you wearing? Dress for the economy you want, not the economy you have.
Because if I just could give you a quick, a quick bit of criticism here.
.
You look like a 50-year-old Molly dealer at a Greek discotheque.
How are we giving this man billions? I wouldn't give him $50 because deep down you know I'd never see that money again.
Because that is the face of a man who would immediately spend it all on scented lube.
That's a fact! Let's move on.
Let's move on to Ukraine.
Let's move on to Ukraine where tensions with Russia remain terrifyingly high.
Because although there was a cease-fire last weekend declared it was basically violated almost as soon as it began.
And if you're looking for someone to blame for that, you don't have to look far.
Ukraine claims 20 Russian tanks, 10 rocket launchers along with troops and supplies crossed the border into Ukraine.
Russian president Vladimir Putin remarked today, no one should have the illusion they can gain military superiority over Russia.
Yes, Putin says Russia is unconquerable, like a doorknob after you've just put on hand lotion.
Just sit down.
You're not going anywhere for at least 2 minutes.
And look the thing is he's not entirely wrong.
It's beginning to seem like the international community is pretty powerless to do anything regarding Putin.
Which is why what Egypt did recently was so delightful.
You may have missed that the week before last, Putin was in Cairo on a state visit, even presenting the Egyptian president with an ak-47, which is a bit condescending.
You don't give a gun as a gift to a world leader.
You give one to a child in Texas on his 13th birthday.
We know, we all know how it works! But here the thing this is where it gets good.
Egypt decided to honor Putin with a rendition of his national anthem.
Now, before I show you what happened, this is Russia's national anthem as played at his inauguration.
That's a great anthem.
Stirring, bold, powerful.
This is his anthem, as played for him in Egypt.
Look how angry he is! And yet he's just got to stand there and take it! Watch and learn, international community.
Because, sure, to most countries like Egypt Putin is unconquerable.
But that doesn't mean you can't kick the shit out of his national anthem in front of him and finally, finally the United Kingdom is having an election in may.
Both parties are campaigning hard especially for women voters.
The conservative party has been accused of ignoring women in the past, so the Labour party may have a chance to capitalize, as long as they don't make any ridiculous mistakes.
The Labour party has been defending the color it's chosen for a minibus which is being used in a campaign to try and attract female voters.
The deputy Labour leader Harriet Harmon has defended the decision to use the color on the vehicle already nicknamed "the Barbie bus".
It is a little insulting that you're trying to appeal to adult women voters the same way that Mattel attempts to appeal to 8-year-olds.
At least Barbie's pink bus had the good sense to unfold into a sweet hot tub and party den combo.
That thing was sick.
Now, understandably, this bus has been more than a little controversial, with many women in Britain reacting like this.
We're politically minded, we can read and we can access information in the way that men or anyone else can.
I think the pink bus is a bit patronizing.
A bit patronizing? The only way it could be more patronizing is if its wheels were giant Nuva rings and they refused to let women drive it.
Now for some reason, instead of apologizing, the Labour party has tried to deny what color the van is, insisting it was cerise, or magenta, or trying to avoid the question altogether.
And just so we've got it on the record, what color is this? Oops.
I'll tell you where we got the it's like pink, cerise, I don't know.
People will call this color it's certainly a version of pink, I would say.
I think she might have just hit rock bottom.
You can see her thinking: I got into politics to make a difference, and now I am on television desperately trying to act like I don't know the color pink.
What happened to my life? If this wasn't bad enough, the Labour party claimed this is all part of an effort to reach out to women and have a conversation about the kitchen table, and around the kitchen table, rather than having an economy that just reaches the boardroom table.
Yeah.
You know, women, they want to talk to you where you are, not in a board room but in a kitchen or in a baby gap or underneath a giant pile of yarn and romance novels.
You know, the places you go.
Incredibly, the pink bus has still not been discontinued.
And at this point, I'm almost glad that Labour's not doing damage control.
Because I'm afraid that, if they did, it would look like this.
Women of the United Kingdom, the Labour party would like to apologize to you for our wrong-headed "pink van campaign".
We want you to know that Labour respects you which is why, this general election we will focus on the issues that we know matter to you and that means ponies! Look at the pretty pony.
It's a very pretty pony, isn't it, women? Like you, Labour care about this pony! We brush its pretty pony hair.
And before you get offended, you're right, a pony is not enough.
That's why we dressed the pony up in a pretty princess outfit.
Princess pony! Princess pony! Princess pony! Vote for Labour in may and if you're very good we will come to your kitchen and you can pet the pretty princess pony oh, don't be scared.
She's a nice pony.
Not a mean pony.
Go on.
Pet the pony! Do it now! Pet the pretty princess pony! Labour cares about women's issues, all of them.
So when it's time to vote, remember you love ponies.
Labour has a pony, pony, pony, pony.
Ponies! Vote Labour.
Our top story, our top story tonight is judges, wearers of America's only formal muu-muus.
Judges occupy an exalted position in American life.
But as important as they are, we tend not to think about them very much, unless one of them makes news, as happened earlier this month.
A federal court last month lifted Alabama's ban on same-sex marriage.
But, Roy Moore, the state supreme court's chief justice, ordered state judges to ignore the federal ruling.
Yes, Alabama judge Roy Moore, refused an order to let gay people marry.
Living up to his state's slogan: Alabama, boldly refusing to accept diversity and the inevitable since 1819.
Now, just out of interest, what was his judicial reasoning for such a decision? I think the gay marriage is an alteration of the definition of marriage and the United States supreme court does not have the authority or the federal courts do not have the authority to interpret a word that disputes the constitution.
Well, hold on.
Hold on.
Not only can the supreme court override a state, that's basically its job.
That's like telling dill it can't ruin any food stuff it comes in contact with.
That's what dill does.
Get out of everyone's food, dill! You filthy weed! You're a wrecking ball! You might, you might be thinking, how did that man get to become the highest judicial officer in the state? Well, like 85 percent of state judges in America, he was elected.
39 states hold elections for judges.
And America is virtually alone in doing this.
There's only one other country on earth that does it on this scale.
You can guess which? You're wrong.
It's Bolivia, a country you think about so little, you don't even realize that's not Bolivia.
This is Bolivia.
Actually actually actually that's still not Bolivia.
This is Bolivia.
Or is it? Or is it? This game is never not gonna be fun.
America's been electing judges since the early 1800's.
And the thing is, it all began from a good impulse.
Judicial elections originated as a reform measure.
So people were concerned that you know judges were being selected behind closed doors.
There wasn't any kind of public accountability.
Ok, and public accountability sounds great.
The problem is, for many judges nowadays, there's almost none of that.
Most run unopposed.
Last year in L.
A.
county, 150 out of 151 incumbent judges ran unopposed.
And come on, they could at least go through the motions of pretending there was another candidate.
Just throw a robe on a pelican and tape a gavel to his wing or I'll tell you what, you're in L.
A! Just pretend you're considering Blake lively for the job.
Movie studios do that all the time.
And the problem is, whenever a judge does face a challenger, they have to run like a politician.
And that's why many states are subjected to the bizarre spectacle of ads like these.
Hi.
I'm Allen loughry and I'm running for our supreme court.
It's Loughry as in "law" and "free".
This is my house.
Come on in.
There is the kitchen.
Something smells good.
This is our family room my wife Kelly Loughry and our son justice Loughry.
That's right.
Justice Loughry.
Yes, sir.
Yep.
I call my son justice.
I call my dog preamble.
And I call my penis the gavel.
Vote for me.
And sometimes, campaigns opt to sell a judge with sheer catchiness.
There's a judge they call Paul Newby, he's got criminals on the run.
Paul's steely stare's got them running scared and he'll take them down one by one.
Paul Newby, he's a tough old judge, respected everywhere.
Paul Newby, justice tough but fair.
Paul Newby, criminals best beware.
What just happened? Am I supposed to vote for that man or root for him to catch them Duke boys? And look I know what you're thinking.
Could any commercial be less relevant to a judge's qualifications for the job? I give you Greg Beard.
Search and rescue in Rapides parish.
Here's volunteer diver Greg Beard.
We have to know what we're doing! Study, train, trust our team.
We do this because it helps people.
Greg Beard for Rapides parish districtal judge.
When times are tough, this dive team stands ready.
Of course.
Of course, it makes sense because when I'm choosing a judge, the only thing I really care about is who can hold their breath the longest.
Here's the thing: All three of the men in those ads won their elections.
They're judges now, judging people.
And the stupid ads are actually the least problematic.
What's far more worrisome is when judges run ads like these.
Without blinking an eye judge Kenneth Ingraham sentenced the killer to die.
Michael Oster is the only candidate for judge who has put our worst criminals on death row.
It is my privilege to sentence you to life in prison without parole.
Wait? It's your privilege? At best, it's your duty.
There are some jobs where that kind of occupation relish is inappropriate.
If you're having a colonoscopy, you don't want to hear, it is my privilege to insert this camera deep inside your anus.
The problem with an elected judiciary is, sometimes the right decision is neither easy nor popular.
And yet, campaigns force judges to look over their shoulder on every ruling because while political attack ads can be aggressive, judicial attack ads can be downright horrifying.
I was convicted of stabbing my victims with a kitchen knife.
Of shooting my ex-girlfriend and murdering her sister in front of our child, of sexual assault on a mom and her 10 year-old daughter.
And I slashed their throats.
On appeal, justice Thomas Kilbride sided with us over law enforcement or victims.
Oh, my god.
Good luck getting back into whatever you were watching after seeing that commercial.
Sheldon and his friends are going to have to get into some pretty wacky mishaps to wipe the memory of that away.
Now, what those evil shadows are saying sounds awful.
But here's the problem: None of those three men were actually set free by judge Kilbride.
But, in each case, he merely questioned the legality of procedural points in their trials.
Which is a judge's job but there's no room in campaigns for nuance.
That's why you don't see bumper stickers reading, justice is complicated, requiring the sublimation of our baser instincts, which though difficult is the only thing that separates us from the anarchy of beasts.
Kilbride 2015! The danger is though, the danger is, if ads like those get inside judges' heads and make them rule more harshly to protect themselves in the future.
And the problem is, that does happen.
There's academic studies that have suggested that judges do change their behavior.
So, for example, in election years, if you look at judges sentencing decisions.
Judges tend to be harder on crime.
That is terrifying.
Because you shouldn't be sitting in a prison going, "how did you get 15 months for public urination?" Well, you know, it was October in an election year.
I should have known what I was getting into.
And it's not like appointing judges is the perfect system.
We can all name one that we don't like, and it's usually Antonin Scalia.
Oh, oh oh, oh-oh, oh! No, no, no, no, no! Or, in his more palatable form, a bulldog dressed as Antonin Scalia.
Here the thing.
Elections are inherently compromising.
Because campaigns cost money.
And that money has to come from somewhere.
Which leads to the horrifying spectacle of judges hitting up lawyers for donations.
For attorneys like Jules osman this is the most expensive time of the year election season is when lawyers like him have to dig deepest into his wallet, that's because every hour or so he gets a call from a judge's campaign looking for a contribution.
- It's very hard to say no.
- It's impossible to say no.
Judges asking lawyers to give them campaign money is the definition of conflict of interest.
Think about it, giving money to a judges wouldn't be acceptable in a state fair squash-growing competition.
Oh really? Gladys gets first place? How much money did she give you? Because I know that knobbly pile of shit is not the nicest squash you've seen this afternoon.
It looks like the jolly green giant's dick fell off, and everyone here knows it, Gladys! Everyone knows it.
Sometimes, judges will even shake lawyers down after the election is over.
Democratic appeals court judge Jim Sharp sent a passive-aggressive email to a Texas attorney who had donated to his unsuccessful opponent which said: I trust that you will see your way clear to contribute to my campaign and in an amount reflective of the $2,000 contribution you made towards my defeat.
Wink emoticon.
And the fact he's shaking him down isn't even the part of that email I find most offensive.
It's the wink emoticon.
I guess we should all just be glad he stopped short of going full wink emoji.
Incredibly, judges can even target potential future defendants, as a Philadelphia traffic court judge candidate named Willie Singletary did, at a biker rally.
Do all judges do this? Are there divorce judges going to Ikeas right now saying: I know some of you guys won't last.
Who's got 50 bucks for me? Puff up! Now, you'll be glad to hear that that judge is no longer on the bench.
Although it wasn't for taking those contributions, but rather because he allegedly once showed cellphone pictures of his genitals to a colleague, an accusation that yielded a disciplinary hearing whose magnificent opinion featured the phrase "the judicial penis" and determined he had intentionally groomed his penis for photography.
Now, that's not really relevant to the story that I'm telling right now, but I think you'll agree you had to know.
You deserve to know that.
And look, it gets it gets one step worse.
One step worse.
Judges also frequently benefit from campaign money given by businesses and special interests.
And while they may claim that doesn't affect them, multiple studies have suggested otherwise.
We looked at the Ohio supreme court and asked the question of how often they vote for contributors who appear before them, and the answer was, overall, about 70% of the time, and in the case of one justice, Terrence O'Donnell, 91% of the time.
Now, O'Donnell says there's no connection there.
But the point is, he still said: Sure, why not? In response to people who gave him money 91% of the time.
And the only other person who does that is Nicolas cage.
That's the only.
.
It's been a disaster, Nicolas.
It's been a romp, but it's been a disaster.
And to be fair, many judges don't like this system.
Even Ohio supreme court justice Paul Pfeifer said: "I never felt so much like a hooker down by the bus station in any race I've ever been in as I did in a judicial race".
Which does explain Pfeifer's campaign slogan: Justice for all.
No kissing on the mouth though.
I have to save something for the man I fall in love with.
And increasingly, since citizens united, PAC, and super PACS are getting involved.
In fact, remember the banjo ad? The one you're still humming in your head? That was sponsored by a PAC called the north Carolina judicial coalition, whose founders included businesses like R.
J.
Reynolds.
And remember this one? I was convicted of stabbing my victims with a kitchen knife, Of shooting my ex-girlfriend and murdering her sister in front of our child.
That was sponsored by something called Justpac, whose donors include Koch industries, the U.
S.
chamber of commerce, and John Deere PAC.
Yes, the people who make tractors also apparently help make judicial decisions for the people of Illinois.
And look, when you have a system where judges are serenaded with banjos, shakedown lawyers for money, compare themselves to prostitutes, and live in constant fear of tractors, you have a problem.
Because faith in a strong independent judiciary is essential for a civilized society.
Without it, we're settling disputes either in thunder-domes, or via "the purge".
And I still can't work out how that thing works.
Are they any rules? Are time zone a factor in the purge? Is the east coast purge an hour before the purge central time? In which case nobody tweet about it.
It spoils it for everyone.
Look, if we're going to keep electing judges, we may have to alter our idea of what justice is.
In fact, at the very least, to be a bit more representative, we should tweak the blindfolded lady holding scales to put a tip jar in her hand, and give her a fucking winking emoji for a face.
And now, this.
And now CNN weatherman Chad Myers hates his job, his life and everyone around him.
You look cold, Chad.
I am freezing, Carol.
They wouldn't let me take in my storm gear for this hit so I'm standing out here in a suit in this little coat.
Got a little strep throat, a little cold.
Maybe some influenza.
I'm not even sure what's going on in this Chad Meyers.
We even call him in here.
This is so big.
That's right you never call me in when there's actually good weather.
You always bring me when there is something bad to talk about I'm afraid may have been right for once.
Hey Chad, happy Thanksgiving.
Happy Thanksgiving, I-i grabbed the short drumstick and here I am.
It's good to see both of you, especially you same, Don.
They send me to New York and then they work me to death.
When I was six I did get coal in my stocking mister Smithsonian says it looks like a cross between a house cat and a Teddy bear.
- My wife already wants one.
- Oh, no! Would you go with your wife? With a marriage counselor? They go to Florida and they like it.
My parents were down there for quite sometimes.
I was in Detroit and they would laugh at me all the time.
Oh, I would too.
Let's bring in Chad Meyers now.
The big thing is oh, look at you, you're crying no, I'm not crying.
This is a very strong storm.
Anderson? Chad Myers.
Thanks for checking in with Susan Hendricks at 3.
50 could you wait until I'm done? If it's ends up over land and that just stand on land it becomes a tornado? You've been paying attention.
And now finally finally, this week was the Chinese new year.
Objectively the best new year, not only because it doesn't involve Ryan Seacrest, but because China goes all out.
Across the country, people welcomed the year of the sheep with elaborate light displays, dancing, and even a fireworks-like performance using molten iron.
Ok.
That seems immensely unsafe.
Unless they are killing a Terminator in which case by all means, you do what you have to do.
Yes, this week marked the beginning of the year of the sheep.
Unless it didn't.
So it's the sheep and the year of the goat, right? Exactly.
The year of the sheep go it depends on where you're from.
But they're all essentially the same the year of the ram, goat, sheep, whatever you want to call it.
Year of the goat or year of the sheep depending on which translator you ask.
That's, that's actually true.
You see the problem here is in the Chinese language, the same word: "Yang" is used for both sheep and goat.
In fact, without a qualifier, it can mean any hoofed animal that eats grass and bleats.
So technically, if she was wearing high heels and eating a salad, this could be the year of Stevie Nicks.
The point is, the point is, the center piece of the Chinese festivities is their annual new year's gala.
And it is incredible.
The new year's gala is an old school variety show.
A five-hour marathon heavy on song, dance, and communist party style patriotism, it's a cultural phenomenon in China, drawing more viewers than the Oscars, Emmys and VMAs combined.
Oh, it doesn't stop there.
Cause you can throw in the Super Bowl and the Latin Grammys, and you're still not close.
700 million people tune into the gala.
That's one in every 10 people on earth.
And when you see it, it starts to make sense.
Because the opening number alone was quite possibly the happiest song of all time.
Holy shit, that kid is amazing! See? By the way, see, Caillou? That is what a bald child is supposed to behave like.
He's outside, he's living is life he's having adventures, Caillou! Grow up! And look that was just the beginning the gala also featured contortionists pouring water with their feet, a man chugging rice wine and someone else spinning around on roller skates with a child on his head while a giant robot looks on.
And that alone is China in microcosm right there, a gigantic machine looming over its subjects, forcing them to be more coordinated than anyone thought it was physically possible.
Clearly, the Chinese take their new year celebrations very seriously.
So when the American consulate in Hong Kong put together a video to celebrate it, I can only assume it was equally spectacular.
where to, city head? All right.
Stop, stop, stop, stop rights there.
What the fuck was that? Let's pray that no one in mainland China saw that because slapping a pair of sunglasses on a stuffed sheep seems like an insult.
Even I can do better than that.
Watch, watch I'll do it right now.
How ya doing, friends? Please enjoy my articulated mouth and full range of motion.
It's the least I can do for a nation which own over a trillion dollars of U.
S debt to honor the year of me.
Excuse me.
Excuse me, gentlemen, the year of whom? Huh? This is the year of the goat.
Oh boy, this is not gonna be good.
Ok.
Oh, this is the year of the sheep.
No, honey this is the year of the goat.
- Goat! - Sheep! Boy, boy, boy this is just a cultural misunderstanding the Chinese language actually doesn't make a specific distinction between the two of you.
But why, why, why, we are completely different! Ok? The goats have beard, see? See, see, see sheep just can't grow beard they are like Topher Grace Ok, fair enough.
My cheese has vitamin C! And so what? Who eat the cheese for the vitamin C? Hey fun fact, Johnny.
I eat tin cans.
No, no, no that is an urban legend.
Oh I've done it! You're calling me a liar? Oh yes we are! No, no, no, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys! I know why you are different.
Only one of you goes well with mint jelly.
Fuck you! Let's wrangle this guy! No, no, no, don't, stop it! That's our show! See you next week! Happy year of the goat-sheep.
Good night! Guys, stop it, stop it, stop it! Be good, don't bite, no biting! No biting! Stop it, stop, stop it.
Stop it, stop it, stop it! 

Welcome, welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight.
" I'm John Oliver.
Just time for a quick recap of the week.
And we begin in Russia, the future home of 45 million Ukrainians.
Well, on Friday, there was some terrible news.
We are following a breaking story out of Moscow, the murder of Russian opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, the fifty five years old opposition politican was gunned down less than two days before he was to lead a large rally against Russian president Vladimir Putin.
Wow, that would seem like a shocking coincidence if you knew literally nothing about Russia.
Because Nemtsov is just the latest in a long line of Putin's enemies to find themselves mysteriously imprisoned or dead.
In fact, just a few weeks ago, Nemtsov was asked in an interview if he was afraid that Putin might kill him.
And his answer was "Yes, a little bit.
" In fact at the end of that interview, the journalist said to him, "I hope common sense will prevail and Putin will not kill you.
" Which sounds chilling, but to be fair, "I hope Putin will not kill you" is just how Russian people say goodbye to each other.
"Thanks for dinner, Dimitri.
I hope Putin will not kill you.
" "Thanks! I hope Putin will not kill you, too.
" Obviously, we won't know who killed Nemtsov until the investigation into his death is complete.
There's just one problem with that.
Tonight, Vladimir Putin says he will personally take charge of the investigation into Nemsov's death.
Yes, this will be detective Putin's greatest mystery since "the case of the missing Crimean peninsula that I would very much like to take back now.
" But look let's give Putin the benefit of the doubt.
Because his investigation has already made an early breakthrough, and it turns out he's definitely not involved.
President Vladimir Putin has condemned the murder, calling it a contract killing.
He also launched an investigation into the murder and said it bears all the hallmarks of a contract killing.
"Yes, I will find whoever is responsible for this contract killing and make sure they are paid whatever it is that I owed them.
So, I'll do that.
Moving on, let's move on to Washington DC, earlier this week, there was big news from the F.
C.
C.
It is now being called the historic decision for how Americans surf the net.
The F.
C.
C approved sweeping net neutrality rules.
Yes! Cable and telecom companies will not be allowed to create a two-tiered "fast lane" and "slow lane" on the Internet.
Meaning that all of us will be treated the same when we upload and share pictures of a gold and white dress.
It's gold and white! I will fight every one of you.
I will fight you, I will fight you! You may remember that when we talked about this subject last year, we likened Tom Wheeler, the head of the F.
C.
C.
, to a dingo babysitter, due to the fact that he once ran the cable industry's lobbying arm.
Which prompted this response I would like to state for the record that I'm not a dingo.
Yes, you are.
You are a dingo.
It's just that in this one instance, you did not eat the baby.
So, good dingo! Keep it up! Good baby sitting dingo! Keep it up.
This is genuinely good news.
.
And not just because consumers and entrepreneurs are happy, but because Internet service providers are sad.
And no one reacted more passive-aggressively than Verizon.
Verizon putting out this press release, objecting to what they called "1930's-style rules," so what did they do? They put out a press release in morse code to emphasize their point.
Wow, that's petty.
And by the way, Verizon I'll say this for morse code.
At least it didn't drop out for no fucking reason anytime people walked into their kitchen.
"There's a dead zone by the stove, Bartholomew.
Just wave the machine around a bit.
" It appears, though, that some members in congress are on Verizon's side.
Because just one day after the F.
C.
C.
'S ruling, one of them took to the house floor to disagree with it.
The Obama majority on the F.
C.
C Seized unprecedented control over the Internet under the guise of net neutrality.
Now, net neutrality is the notion that the latest cat video is of equal importance to a teleconference consultation for a heart patient.
Ok, first of all, what if the latest cat video "is" a tell conference for a heart patient with doctor Larry Meowberg-fluffstein? Because he's "excellent.
" He's excellent.
But second you're misunderstanding what net neutrality is.
Cat videos are part of the point.
Net neutrality is about keeping providers from picking and choosing whose voices get heard, ensuring that the Internet remains a Democratic space for all messages.
Even if all a message contains is this Yes, that's freedom.
Finally, finally, a quick word on history.
Or as Ken Burns calls it: "pornography".
This week brought some shocking news about a fact that everyone was taught at some point in history class The rat has had a bad rap over the centuries.
By far, its most deadly offense? Spreading the black death across the world in the 14th century, killing 75 million people.
But it seems that rats have been the victims of one of history's biggest framings.
Ok, first, history's biggest framings are inside Mariah Carey's living room, and they are around oil paintings of Mariah Carey.
That's a fact, that's a fact! But secondly, if rats didn't spread the plague, who did? Scientists in Norway believe it might actually have been this, the innocent little gerbil.
Gerbils?! Let me get this straight.
.
The black death, the plague which nearly wiped out human civilization as we know it, may have been caused by Mr.
nibbles here? Well, if rats have been falsely accused, we clearly need to make amends.
And I only partially say that because I live in New York, so I'm reasonably certain there are at least 30 rats within five feet of me right now.
So gather round, rats Because we've made a video just for you.
For centuries, humanity's placed the blame for one of its greatest calamitieses squarely at the feet of the common rat.
The black death was the result of bubonic plague spread by rats.
This turns out to be false.
So it's with great humility, that we, the human race, would like to apologize to the rat community for centuries of demonization.
Apologies, rats.
You deserve better.
Now, as for you, you devious gerbil bastards, all this time we've been buying wheels for you to run on constructing elaborate gerbilarium for you to inhabit And making hat for you, specially made hats.
Wish granted, you pulled off, but that's not the point! All this time, you whiskered fucks, you made responsible for casting a grim shadow of death over the human civilization as we know it.
We have to smack you right in your incredibly cute glassy eyes So here's the deal: We, the human race are pissed off, we really pissed off.
And we demand an apology.
We don't care how you do it.
Write it with scraps of newspaper, chew it into a toilet paper roll.
Spell it out in your own shit.
Just get it done, gerbils, And just to reiterate, sorry to rats.
Moving on.
Our main story tonight is about infrastructure.
It's our roads, bridges, dams, levees, airports, power grid, basically anything that can be destroyed in an action movie.
Get out of there! God, dammit! Holy shit! If an alien species judged humanity by our most popular movies, they'd think we were furious with asphalt all the time.
The problem is though, when our infrastructure is not being destroyed by robots and/or saved by Bruce Willis, we tend to find it a bit boring.
As you know, infrastructure is not a sexy or glamorous topic.
As much as I'd like to think otherwise, infrastructure is not sexy.
Infrastructure is not very sexy.
Yes, infrastructure Like those men we just heard from is important, but not sexy.
Although, to be fair, that may just be because Hollywood promotes unrealistic standards of infrastructure beauty.
That's not what a real road looks like! Real roads have curves! So, so most people think infrastructure is boring.
They think it's boring, but is it? Because I'd argue that it's actually pretty fascinating.
And I know that, in saying that, I have basically become the rad youth counselor trying to convince you that Jesus was the Taylor Swift of his time.
"Revelations is a break-up song to the Romans, guys, who wants another mountain dew? Catch.
" So, so let's talk about infrastructure tonight.
And let's begin with dams.
Because dams are amazing! They're the most powerful device we have for holding back liquid, aside from the idea of using a porta-potty.
"I'll wait.
I'll just wait forever.
I cannot go in there.
America used to love dams.
Grand Cooley dam in Washington state, the world's biggest concrete structure.
The bolder dam stands today a modern colossal.
The walls of the new dam towers into the sky like mighty modern pyramids.
Yes, and we built those dams with ingenuity and brawn and, of course, piles and piles of dead Irish.
Of course we did, they're good workers and their corpses make a solid foundation material.
That's an architectural fact.
But these days, America's once-great dam system is in a state of serious disrepair.
The average age of the country's 84,000 dams is 52 years, and many of them have problems that stem from when they were first built.
Yes, much like most Botox recipients and competitive cloggers, the average dam is 52 years old and probably has something deeply broken inside of it.
You would think a statistic like that would terrify people into action.
But amazingly, many states are paying virtually no attention to their dam problems.
In 2007, the last year for which statistics are available, Texas had just seven inspectors responsible for 7,400 dams.
That's over 1,050 dams per inspector.
The state was only able to look at 239 dams.
Alabama doesn't even have an inspection agency to monitor its 2,000-plus dams.
Zero inspectors! That means that the state of Alabama has exactly the same number of dam inspectors as the band "Alabama.
" And it's not just dams.
We are currently doing a terrible job of maintaining all of our infrastructure.
The nation's infrastructure of bridges, roads, and pipelines is sorely in need of renovation.
Collectively they get nothing more than a D-plus.
A d-plus? Think about that.
America got the same grade than a 10th-grade teacher gives a nightmare kid so she doesn't have to deal with him for another year.
"No Landon.
We're not calculating the surface area of our penises.
Just give him a d-plus and say he has family troubles.
I cannot even deal with that shit again.
" And look, to be fair, that D-plus grade came from the American society of civil engineers, who would clearly benefit from more infrastructure spending.
So it's a bit like having the state of our nation's tennis balls assessed by the American society of golden retrievers.
"They are dangerously underthrown! This must change! We've been such good dogs, such good dogs!" But other studies have also found our infrastructure is lacking.
The world economic forum ranks America 16th in the world and we need to be better.
Because when infrastructure fails, bad things happen.
Like last year, when a pipe burst and flooded the campus of UCLA.
A water main break in West Los Angeles.
It turned the UCLA campus into a river.
Students walked through ankle deep water or in some cases, tried to have fun with the situation.
I've been here for 20 minutes trying to get the best view.
Actually I just came from the gym.
I got kicked out you know because of the flood, so It was insane, like there was so much water.
"It's like, I never seen so much water, except for like, lakes, I guess.
" And when, And when infrastructure is damaged, it's not just incredibly expensive.
It can also be lethal.
From the big stuff like bridge collapses and dam failures to the little stuff, like potholes.
Gone at 53 years old.
Al Lee slammed his bike into a pothole riding along grizzly peak boulevard in Oakland.
His wife Nancy says a car then hit him head on.
Roadways need to be paved.
That's why we have infrastructure.
That's why we pay our taxes.
And That is horrifying.
But the problem is, we only ever seem to talk about infrastructure when something tragic like that happens.
And the scale of this problem is scary, as the former secretary of transportation points out.
According to the government, there are 70,000 bridges that have been deemed structurally deficient.
- Yep.
- What does that mean? It means that there are bridges that need to be really either replaced or repaired in a very dramatic way.
They're dangerous? I don't want to say they're unsafe.
But they're dangerous.
What? Hold on, Hold on, Hold on.
When we're at a point where the secretary of transportation is struggling to decide between using the word "unsafe" and the word "dangerous," we might have a problem worth fixing.
And if you want a glimpse into how close to catastrophe we occasionally are, take this story from Philadelphia.
In 2008, two contractors from the Pennsylvania department of transportation stopped to get a sausage sandwich and parked their cars under this bridge.
And fortunately they wanted that sausage sandwich, because they saw one of these piers with an eight-foot gash in it about five inches wide.
And if they hadn't wanted a sausage sandwich? There's a strong likelihood that bridge would have collapsed.
So there might have been a disaster if those Philly contractors hadn't stopped for a sausage sandwich! Which means we were fine.
We were always going to be fine.
But, but the scary thing is, the scary thing is what if the next cracked pillar in Philadelphia is next to a vegan smoothie stand? The bridge is going down, and people are going to die.
And it's not just Philadelphia.
Look at Pittsburgh, the "city of bridges" and its solution to one that was dangerously deteriorating.
One of these arch bridges actually has a structure built under it to catch falling deck.
See that structure underneath it? They actually built that to catch any of the falling concrete so it wouldn't hit traffic underneath it.
They built a bridge under the bridge! That is a college sophomore approach to structural engineering "Yeah, the trash was over flowing, so I just started putting it in the microwave.
Problem solved.
I'm a legend.
" And there are dangerous bridges everywhere.
Here in New York, the Tappan Zee bridge is so notoriously shaky, one government official in charge of fixing it called it a "hold-your-breath" bridge.
And the only time we should ever talk about "hold-your-breath bridges" would be if, for some reason, Beau Bridges were into autoerotic asphyxiation, and you were trying to remember which one he was.
"Is he the normal bridges or the 'hold-your-breath' bridges?" It's important that I know this.
The facts about the Tappan Zee bridge.
Are frightening enough.
And yet the history channel felt the need to produce a terrifyingly C.
G.
I.
-Filled account of the worst-case scenario.
Some of the Tappan Zee's foundations are at risk, and this is what could happen if they eventually gave way.
Ok, Ok, Ok.
One, one that's very frightening.
But two, why did the director assume we'd have such a strong emotional attachment to the coffee cup? A fucking bridge just collapsed.
At this point, we aren't just flirting with disaster.
We're rounding third base and asking if disaster has any condoms.
And, and the crazy thing is, ask any politician from either side, and they'll tell you that infrastructure is incredibly important.
Everyone agrees on this! In fact, at a recent hearing, both business and labor in the form of the U.
S.
chamber of commerce and the AFL-CIO turned out to support infrastructure spending.
And even they know how rare that is.
If business and labor can come before you united on this issue and we are united on this issue despite our sharp disagreements on a variety of other matters I think that should tell everybody something and tell it very loudly.
He's right.
The last time business and labor agreed on an issue, it was the issue of "how dead should Jimmy Hoffa be?" They both agreed: "pretty dead.
" Here, here's how obvious our need is.
Just two days ago, even a total idiot agreed.
We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Our roads are crumbling, everything's crumbling, and we're rebuilding China.
Ok, now, glossing over whatever the fuck he was talking about regarding rebuilding China, that upside-down piece of candy corn in a wig made of used medical gauze is right we do have to rebuild our infrastructure.
So with consensus like this, how are things so bad? Well, one of the problems is, just fixing things is not politically appealing.
Because when you build something new, you get to do this.
One, two, three! Yeah! All right! Yay! Yeah! There is nothing politicians like more than using oversized scissors to cut through ribbons.
But you don't get to cut a ribbon after routine repairs.
Infrastructure is like legos.
Building is fun.
Destroying is fun.
But a Lego maintenance set would be the most boring fucking toy in the world.
"It comes built and then you maintain it, and if you do it right, nothing happens and eventually you die.
Have fun, son.
" Perhaps the best symbol for our neglected infrastructure is the U.
S highway trust fund.
It's the single largest source of infrastructure funding in this country.
And guess what's about to happen to it? There is a may 31st deadline this year.
The highway trust fund goes bankrupt unless congress acts.
Yes, the fund is about to run out of money.
And unlike most broke trust fund recipients, our highway system can't just get a job at its daddy's law firm.
"Really, Declan? What case are you working on? And does it contain 24 Miller lites? I hate you, Declan.
" The reason the fund is nearly insolvent is that it's primarily funded by the federal gas tax.
And there's just one hitch with that.
The highway trust fund gets revenue from 18.
4 cent per gallon gas tax, but the tax has not increased to keep up with inflation since 1993.
And the fact it hasn't increased means that in real terms, the gas tax has gone down 39% since 1993.
Much like Koosh ball sales, or respect for Bill Cosby.
I'd like to think it's more than that, but sadly, I don't think it is, actually.
You'd think congress would fix this shortfall, but we haven't had long-term transportation legislation for over a decade.
In fact, since 2003, it's barely passed two partial authorizations and 23 short-term extensions.
One of which in July 2005 Was for just two days, Two days! That entire extension lasted half a Sting orgasm.
That's not enough.
So, so you might think why doesn't Washington just raise the gas tax and fund the fund? Well, because that would be incredibly unpopular.
Listen to what happened when C-SPAN had a call-in and asked people whether or not the gas tax should be raised.
I don't know about another gas tax is going to help us out.
Ok.
- No, they shouldn't raise the gas tax.
- Ok.
The last thing we need is new taxes.
Ok.
If gas prices go back up, we'll be stuck with a super high prices.
Ok.
The government has plenty of money.
What I want to say is no.
War on coal, war on gasoline, war on diesel.
I agree with all of the previous callers.
- Hello? - Ok.
Ok, ok.
That callin lasted for nearly an hour and they did not receive a single call in favor of the gas tax.
You'd think they would at least have been prank called by Mikey and the badger, D.
C.
's number one morning zoo crew.
"Hi, I'd just like to say we should definitely raise the gas tax! You've been badgered!" B.
.
b.
.
b.
.
b badgered! Badgered! In the face.
.
In the face of that kind of overwhelming lack of public support, it is hardly surprising that the White House is not too keen on it either.
The administration has not put forward and does not plan to put forward a, a proposal to increase the gas tax.
Ok.
So it seems raising the gas tax is unlikely, which is fine, as long as you have another concrete way to raise that money.
So what is the White House's plan? This administration has put forward an idea by essentially closing a loophole that allows corporations to benefit from stashing some of their profits overseas.
Ok, raise funds by closing corporate loopholes.
I think we all know that is guaranteed to work.
The only obstacle would be And I know that this is highly unlikely if there were another corporate loophole somewhere else in the tax code.
Oh, and there is one other obstacle.
When the president floated this plan by John Boehner a year ago, he swatted it aside.
Perhaps because Boehner favors his own plan, which he's been talking up for the past two years.
I'm committed to working at the find of funding source so we can begin to repair America's aging infrastructure.
The hunt has been underway for the last year and a half to find that funding source.
I wish I could report you that we've found it, but we haven't.
We've got to find a way to deal with America's crumbling infrastructure, and we need to do it in a long-term program oh, uh, that is, in fact, funded.
Two years and nothing.
That's an oddly laid back way to tackle a potentially catastrophic problem.
Because if a giant lizard were attacking our roads and bridges, you wouldn't spend two years saying, "yes, I'm committed to preventing marauding lizards destroying our city, but we need to do it in a long-term program that is, in fact, funded.
" I refuse to believe that after all this time, Boehner doesn't now have some sort of plan.
We actually emailed his office earlier this week and asked, "what is Speaker Boehner's proposal to raise revenue for the U.
S.
highway trust fund?" We didn't hear back.
So we emailed someone else in the office.
Still nothing.
So we called the office.
Still nothing.
At this point we were getting desperate, so we sent him this tweet asking: "Mr.
speaker, how specifically will you raise revenue for the U.
S.
highway trust fund?" #HappyBirthdayJustinBieber, just to make sure that he would see it.
Then, still nothing.
Then we found out that he's on vine for some reason, because apparently he's 14 in 2013 so we sent him this: Mr.
Speaker, how specifically would you raise revenue for the U.
S.
trust Sunday? Is that six seconds? It feels a lot longer.
Still nothing.
He still didn't get back to us.
Look, the lack of political urgency in tackling this problem is insane.
And you can not tell me you're not interested in this.
Because every summer, people flock to see our infrastructure threatened by terrorists or aliens.
But we should care just as much when it's under threat from the inevitable passage of time.
The problem is, no one has made a blockbuster movie about the importance of routine maintenance and repair.
Or they hadn't, until now.
In a world where a few feet of concrete can mean the difference between life and death, where everything you love can be taken from you in the blink of an eye, a few brave souls are willing to risk everything to make nothing happen.
- Hello? - It's time.
- Excuse me? - For your biannual bridge inspection.
I've got Thursday afternoon or Friday anytime before 3:00.
This summer, get ready for "Infrastructure.
" Brace yourself for 98 heart-pounding minutes of incremental maintenance.
I'm not showing any cracking.
No delamination.
No falls in the concrete deck.
What have you got? Mild corrosion on beams.
You're going to have to keep an eye on that.
Thank you, sir.
Don't get cocky.
"The New York Times" calls "Infrastructure," necessary and "something I never thought about but yeah, sure.
" Jesus, God, Bobby! Behind you.
Seepage! This thing is going to blow.
15, 20 years, which is why it's so important that we caught it early.
In this line of work, one mistake could be catastrophic.
It's loose, boss, the bolt is loose.
Well, then tighten it.
God dammit! I don't know which way.
Ok, listen to me, listen to me.
Listen lucky loosey, raggy tighty.
Talk to me, what's going on? It's good.
Yes! "Rolling stone" says: "Nothing happens and that's probably for the best.
" I came here to chew bubble gum and inspect bridges.
You want to see terrible puns about engineering you don't fully understand? Looks like somebody needs to get their ducks in a row.
You want to see 20 minutes monologue on the structural integrity of girders I'm ordering you uniaxial tests of the slab transverse to the deck corrugations with additional reinforcement and tension tests of the support fastener connections between the deck and the girders, bitch! You want more thrillin routines maintenance than you can handle? They used PVC piping when they should have used CPVC piping.
God help us.
You want to see "Infrastructure".
Featuring an all-star cast, plus two-time academy award nominee Edward Norton.
Sorry, three-time academy award nominee Edward Norton.
And introducing, as the chief: Steve Buscemi.
I'm the best dams inspector in the business, and I'm here to inspect this dam.
Coming in summer 2015, "Infrastructure.
" If anything exciting happens, we've done it wrong.
Sausage sandwich? Of course.
That's our show.
Thank you so much for watching, good night.

 Welcome, welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight"! I'm John Oliver.
Just time for a quick recap of the week.
And it was dominated here at home by this.
Breaking news back here at home tonight out of Ferguson, Missouri.
Ok.
Let's just all agree that breaking news out of Ferguson has become one of the most dread-inducing combinations of words in the English language, alongside Dr.
Phil sex tape and vegan cupcakes.
Now, on Wednesday, the department of justice released two reports on Ferguson.
The first announced no civil rights charges would be filed against officer Darren Wilson for the Michael brown shooting.
But it was the second one that had people talking.
The department also officially released a scathing report that found systemic racial bias in the Ferguson police department and courts.
Now, I done think anyone was truly surprised by the contents of that report.
But in fact, you needed to read that report the same way you needed to read the reviews of "Mortdecai.
" You knew the verdict would be terrible.
It was just which particular words they chose to use.
Now, the report didn't just show evidence of disproportionate targeting and violence against African-Americans.
It also showed this.
Investigators say that they found e-mails from court officials and police department, police officers they were racial jokes that reference president Obama.
Another message in June 2011 compared dogs to African-Americans, suggesting the animals needed welfare because they were mixed in color, unemployed, lazy, can't speak English and have no fricking clue who their daddies are.
It's moments like these that make me glad I'm on Hbo, where you can hear me say this.
Fuck those fucking assholes! It's what.
.
This is what swearing is for.
The mayor of Ferguson went immediately into damage control mode, inexplicably arguing that we should not blow this all out of proportion.
These actions taken by these individuals are in no way representative of the employees of the city of Ferguson.
"In no way representative"? Did you read the report? They were entirely representative.
That's the problem! The.
.
these e-mail were apparently sent from official city of Ferguson e-mail addresses to supervisors in both the Ferguson police department and the court system, during work hours So they couldn't be more representative of Ferguson city employees if their signature said sent from the very core of who I am as a person.
I, I will say, that.
.
there is one thing the mayor of Ferguson said in his press conference that did made sense.
Today's report allows the city of Ferguson to identify the problems not only in our police department, but in the entire St.
Louis region.
Now, that is true because let's be clear, this is not just Ferguson.
And if you need proof here's just one other example.
A year and a half ago, an African-American police officer in St.
Louis received this letter at work.
It read in part quote: "you black expletive, we want you out of our station, we want your black expletive dead.
Expletive your medals.
If an aid call comes out for you, we won't respond, kill yourself expletive or we will.
Respectfully, south patrol"? I'll tell you what gets me about that ending a racist threatening letter with respectfully.
Just goes to show, whatever systemic problems that area may have, Midwestern politeness is unshakeable.
I can only assume that that officer responded, dear assholes, why don't you racist fucks shove a burning cross up your white asses? Love and smooches, your friend and colleague.
So let's.
.
let's move on.
Let's move on from Ferguson to a slighlty less contentious spot on the globe, Israel.
Their elections are in two weeks time, and prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu's recent ad campaign has proven controversial.
Islamic state fighters on the road to Israel, at least that's what Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is warning voters in this campaign advertisement.
The message appears to be if the center left defeats Netanyahu's right wing party in the march 17 parliamentary election ISIL will hand up taking over.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure if ISIL were going to take over Israel, they wouldn't be politely waiting until after the election.
Death to Israel, pending all precincts reporting! Respect the process guys.
Stand back.
Meanwhile, one of Netanyahu's main opponents, Isaac Herzog, has been running an ad addressing a slightly less urgent issue.
Yeah, Isaac Herzog is apparently concerned that people hate his voice.
And, and if you're thinking, why? He seems to have a perfectly pleasant baritone.
Well, it turns out, for that ad, he dubbed his own voice with that of a booming announcer, which, which kind of makes you wonder how annoying is this guy's actual voice, if he's been forced to do that? I mean, are we talking Pee Wee Herman mid orgasm? Ray Romano possessed by the ghost of a duck? Russell Crowe's normal singing voice? What, What level of irritation to the human ear is it? I have to hear this horrific real voice in action.
There is also a growing disappointment and mistrust about Netanyahu's security policy.
That voice is fine.
That's a normal, human male voice.
I have to say it's not a great sign of strong leadership that the moment someone criticizes your voice, you panic and go hire a stunt-larynx.
But, but the single greatest campaign ad from the Israeli election so far is from the Yesh Atid party, which consists of, and this is true a three-hour long, single shot of a man summarizing his party's achievements, while someone paints a mural behind him.
And it's pretty bold to make a video that literally allows people to compare you to the experience of watching paint dry.
In fact, the single most exciting thing that happens in that three-hour video is this.
Now now, give him credit.
He did nail that he was, he was two hours and fifteen minutes in.
If he'd given himself the hiccups, they would've had to start over from the start.
But, finally tonight.
Fanta.
The button on a vending machine most likely to be covered by a piece of masking tape crudely labeled "Root Beer".
Fanta was actually in the news this week for some spectacular reasons.
Coca-Cola has pulled its latest ad for Fanta in Germany over an unintended reference to Nazi Germany.
Ok, Ok If you work in advertising before you hit the button on any campaign, someone has to say just to be clear, we all checked this thing for Nazi references, right? We don't want another Michael Jordan with a Hitler mustache issue, ok? We don't want that to happen again.
Apparently, Coca-Cola made the mistake of deciding to celebrate Fanta's 75th anniversary by reminding people of how it was invented.
In the video, Coca cola explains how its German plant was having difficulty getting the syrup needed to make coke in the 40's, so bottlers were forced to make their own sodas, including Fanta.
The problem? The reason the plants had a hard time getting the syrup was of World War 2 and trade embargoes against Nazi Germany.
Yes.
Fanta was invented in Nazi Germany.
And if you didn't know that before, I'm willing to bet it's the only thing you're going to associate Fanta with from now on.
Look, it's a pretty good rule that any companies with historic ties to the Nazis should generally avoid nostalgia.
There, there is a reason that Volkswagen emphasizes things like the Passat winning car of the year.
Rather than, say, the honors it won back in the 1940's.
Herbie! How could you! You've truly gone bananas! I'll say this, Fanta.
Good luck trying to get people to forget your connection to Nazi Germany again.
Because I do not think it can be done.
We at Fanta are well aware we've had some messaging problems recently.
So we just want to remind you what Fanta is really all about.
It's the cool, crisp carbonated drink that marches across your taste buds like Oh, wait.
Hold on.
Not marches.
Fizzes across your taste buds.
If you're on a beach, on a hot summer day think of Fanta as a corridor to the sea.
Wait, no, no not that.
Just focus on the great taste of Fanta, it will annex your thirst.
- No annex! - Quench? - Is quench ok? - Yeah, yeah, quench is fine.
We just want to make sure when you think about Fanta you don't automatically think about Nazis.
Fanta, Nazis, shit! Moving on.
Our main story tonight, our main story tonight concern voting Yesterday mark the 50th anniversary of the first Selma march one of the pivotal moments which led to the voting rights act.
But voting rights in this country much like John Travolta's hair are still very much a work in progress.
There are the obvious obstacles for many Americans, such as increasingly restrictive voter I.
D.
laws.
But there's also the less obvious ones, as congress was reminded just this week.
As we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the march on Selma this week and the subsequent passage of the voting rights act, I want to once again call to the attention of my colleagues here in congress that there are still American citizens today who do not have equal voting rights.
These are citizens of Americans island territories, the U.
S.
virgin islands, Puerto Rico, Guam and the northern Marianas.
Yes, American citizens living in U.
S.
island territories do not get to vote for president.
That's the kind of unsettling fact that deep down, you probably knew, but chose not to think about, much like the fact that the dog from "full house" is definitely dead by now, that kind of thing.
But, but more then.
.
You're proving my point.
More than 4 million people live in the U.
S.
territories.
More than 98% of them are racial or ethnic minorities.
And the more you look into the history of why their voting rights are restricted, the harder it is to justify.
Because it goes all the way back to when America first acquired them.
The United States flag is flying over these lands, and so some people said, well doesn't that mean American laws apply? In 1901 the insular cases.
Basically the judgment of the supreme court was, that the new territories were inhabited by, "alien races" and they may not be able to understand anglo-Saxon laws, therefore the constitution doesn't have to apply.
Wow.
Alien races can't understand anglo-saxon principles.
I find that condescending, and I'm British.
We basically invented patronizing bigotry.
I do so wish we could explain the concept of voting to them, but dear me, their savage little coconut brains would probably just collapse.
I'm, I'm assuming it's coconut milk in there.
We'll see see, whacky stick.
Look, the point is, if that has not set off some alarm bells for you, the man who wrote the lead decision in the first of those rulings was justice Henry Billings brown, who, fun fact, also wrote the famous "separate but equal" decision in Plessy V.
Ferguson, and even he suggested these exceptions to the constitution should only stand for a time as in, a temporary arrangement.
But it's been 114 years.
It's like, for over a century, America's computer has been saying, an update to your country is available.
And we've been clicking remind me later.
Again and again and again.
So tonight, let's look at voting rights in the territories, and we'll begin in Puerto Rico, whose citizens are Americans.
A fact that comes as a surprise to a shocking number of people, as we learned when Sonia Sotomayor was named to the supreme court.
Sotomayor, a Bronx native, is the daughter of Puerto Rican immigrants.
She was a first generation American, the daughter of Puerto Rican immigrants the daughter of Puerto Rican immigrants She's the daughter of Puerto Rican immigrants She's the daughter of Puerto Rican immigrants No, she isn't.
She's the daughter of Americans who moved from Puerto Rico.
If puerto ricans are immigrants, anyone who moves anywhere is an immigrant.
Hey bro, could you help me immigrate apartments on Saturday? I need to immigrate a couch up two floors upstairs Puerto Rico has more American citizens than 21 U.
S.
States.
But less voting rights than any of them.
And whether or not they choose to become a state, it's a little weird that, while they're making that decision, they have a delegate in congress who can't do much.
My constituents cherish their U.
S.
citizenship and have made countless contributions to this country Yet, they cannot vote for president have no U.
S.
senators and send one delegate to the house who has a voice but no vote in this chamber.
It's pretty infantilizing, when discussing national legislation, to give Puerto Rico the same status as a 6-year-old voting on where the family should get to go on vacation.
Oh, what's that, Timmy? Narnia? Okay.
Colonial Williamsburg it is then.
And You were heard, Timmy, you were heard.
And the same voting right restrictions apply to the residents of Guam, the pacific territory that, unequivocally, sounds the most like a Batman punch.
There is, there is nothing not to love about Guam.
It's a beautiful island in a strategically important location for the U.
S.
military.
So much so, their bases currently occupy over a quarter of Guam's land.
And yet the residents of Guam have absolutely no say in general elections for their commander in chief.
Which is even harder to swallow when you consider this: According to Guam's office of veterans affairs, at least 1 in 8 adult Guamanians is a veteran, among the highest percentages of all US states and territories.
Guam gives a quarter of its land and as much as an eighth of its people to the US military.
At this point, the American flag should really just be a guy from Guam waving an American flag.
And yet, due in part to their lack of full voting rights, those veterans are shamefully under-served.
In 2012 Guam ranked dead last in per capita spending on medical care by the us department of veterans affairs or the V.
A.
It's called a PTSD program locator so it tells me to enter my address.
Five options here but the closest one so far looks like Hawaii.
It's 3,803 miles, point 22miles.
That is disgusting.
The only person who should have to travel 3,800 miles for treatment should be a Beverly Hills housewife flying to Colombia for unapproved lip injections derived from cobra venom.
But the amazing thing is, just because Guam residents aren't allowed to vote for president, doesn't mean that they don't.
Guam holds a straw poll every presidential election.
And their registered voter turnout is actually higher than that of the rest of America.
And to misquote the words of the great philosopher Lil Jon, turn out for what? That's, that's a great song.
But, but just imagine how it must feel to have the desire to vote but know deep down you're going to be ignored.
Actually, you don't have to imagine it because let this Guam voter tell you.
It's terrible.
I mean, I believe it's not fair, you know.
We're all citizens of the united states.
I wish somebody changed that.
Ok.
That sounds sad but at least on election day that woman gets to wear the incredibly special, I voted and I wish it had actually counted sticker.
But amazingly, Guam still gets more respect from the U.
S.
Government than American Samoa.
As was proven a little while back when a U.
S.
member of congress was tasked with introducing their delegate, Eni Faleomavaega.
The chair recognizes the gentleman from American Samolia, Mr.
Fing.
.
Faloomabinga.
Samolia? Listen, I get that his name is a little difficult.
But you can not mispronounce American Samoa.
There's a fucking girl scout cookie named after it.
Think, think about it this way.
Would you forget the name of the state of Thinmintissippi? No! That would be ridiculous.
But watch how gracious American Samolia's delegate was in his response.
Thank you, Mr.
speaker.
It's American Samoa.
That is class that I do not have.
Because If I were him, I'd have responded thank you, it's a privilege to be here in Waffleton D.
P.
In the great united sporks of Amooga-boink.
American Samoans not only lack voting rights, they lack a little something extra, too.
The US constitution grants citizenship to everyone born on U.
S.
soil except in one jurisdiction.
American Samoa, in the south pacific.
It is a U.
S.
territory but people who are born there do not automatically get US citizenship.
They don't even get automatic citizenship.
Meaning the American part of American Samoa is really just a title that doesn't mean anything, like people's choice award nominee or social media expert.
Just devoid of meaning.
And that fact is especially shocking when you learn that American Samoa a territory that cannot vote for a president who could send it to war is also home to the top army recruiting station in the country.
So now, I'm thinking the American flag should be a guy from American Samoa, waving a flag with a guy from Guam on it, waving the American flag And because of their status as non-citizens, many veterans have to carry around a humiliating reminder that they are not equal in the eyes of the law.
So this here is my U.
S.
national passport.
The very last page of the passport makes it uniquely a U.
S.
national passport.
It makes me look like I'm an outsider.
I think it demeans me as a person, I think.
That's right, they're not citizens, but nationals, which means they can't run for president serve on a federal jury, or depending on where they live, even become a public schoolteacher.
So they're kinda like off-brand citizens.
They're, they're Americans in the same way that these are Froot loops, or this is Dr.
pepper.
You can pretend it's the same thing, everyone knows it's worse.
Five American Samoans are actually suing the government to change this rule, but the Obama administration has fought them by citing the insular cases from earlier which surgetted that American Samoans like all residents of the territories can be given few rights because they belong to alien races different from us in customs and mode of thought and that's a tricky argument to win, in the face of this kind of evidence.
- Where are you from? - I'm originally from American Samoa.
And what do you do for a living? I'm a soldier in the US army.
I joined straight out of high school and it was something to serve my country and to give back.
I'm active service, we just got back from deployment to Afghanistan for nine months.
Not really sure how to feel about it something in the way you move makes me feel like I can't live without you and it takes me all the way I said I want you to stay I want you to stay Just to be clear, that is an Afghanistan war veteran moving an audience to cheers and at least one judge to a partial orgasm with a rendition of a Rihanna song on a show called "America's got talent.
" If that is not an American, I don't think one has ever existed.
And look, look there are, there are a lot of complicated issues surrounding what the precise status of all the U.
S.
territories should be and what the people who live there would prefer.
But surely, when it comes to denying Americans the right to vote, we have to find a better reason than citing a 100-year-old legal decision written by a racist that was always supposed to be temporary.
And I'm not saying this'll be an easy thing to do.
I'm just saying, we have figured out a lot more complicated things in the last 114 years.
Think about it.
We invented television.
We eliminated the measles.
And then, for some fucking reason, brought them back again! We've held 30 Wrestlemanias and those things are logistical nightmares.
And you know what else we figured out? How to fucking fly! And if we can work out how to climb inside metal birds, slip the bonds of this earth and soar through the air to visit these territories, we should be able to work out how to ensure the four million people who live there get adequately heard.
And now this.
And now "Last Week Tonight" asks how is this still a thing? This week daylight saving time.
How is this still a thing? If you're like most Americans, you've been groggy all day after losing an hour of sleep to daylight savings.
And as you struggle to remember how to change the clock on your fucking microwave you may have wondered why is this happening.
For years conventional wisdom has been benefiting one particular group I know it started because of farmers.
I'm almost sure of that.
But that's not actually true.
It gives us an extra time to plant.
An extra time to harvest.
It has nothing to do with farmers.
I remember years ago hearing that it was for the farm people.
The farm people want nothing to do with this as they themselves will tell you.
I know really no farmer that I'm aware of that benefits from, from you know actual farm activities from daylights savings time.
Of course daylight savings doesn't benefit farmers Cows don't care what time it is because they're cows and cows are idiots.
So if it's not for them who is it for? The modern daylight savings was introduced during the first world war as a fuel setting measure by the Germans.
That's right you lost an hour of sleep this morning thanks to kaiser Wilhelm.
And well back then daylight savings may indeed have saved fuel, in the modern era energy consumption is a little more complicated.
In fact when Indiana adopted the daylight savings in 2006, guess what happened? The data shows that daylight savings actually led to a 1% overall rise in residential electricity Of course, it did.
Because switching on a lamp an hour later in the summer doesn't really matter when you're blasting an air conditioner and staying up all night psychotically scrolling through Instagram of your ex's honeymoon to Morocco.
But that's not to say daylight saving doesn't have any effect at all Study show there is an increase of car accident and work related injuries the week after the time change.
That's right.
What you lose in sleep you gain in mortal danger.
Despite all this 70 countries around the world still observe daylight savings.
And yet by going by local news reports, none of them could tell you why.
From Australia.
Oh daylight saving almost have a full another year with it comes the usual debate over its merits and lacks thereof.
To Italy.
It's a pain in the ass, basically.
To even the Germans, the people who started this all mess.
The time change for many people is ridiculous whether it's an hour ahead or later it's complete nonsense.
Complete nonsense And that's coming from a country that think this is a word and that this is dancing.
So if it doesn't benefit our energy bill, our health, or our stupid, stupid cows, it has to make you wonder, daylight saving time, how is this still a thing? And finally tonight, a quick update on the the tobacco industry.
A few weeks ago, we looked at their efforts to bully countries out of adopting plain-packaging laws.
Well, this week, to their credit, another country was brave enough to try.
Ireland today became the first country in the E.
U.
And only the second in the world to introduce plain packaging for tobacco products.
Good for you Ireland.
That is remarkable and all the more so because in the run-up to that, tobacco companies sent threatening letters to the Irish government, with an affiliate of Philip Morris international claiming the laws infringe its trademarks saying and I quote "as a dance is only meaningful when danced, so a trademark is only meaningful when used"? And you know you have a pretty weak legal argument if it sounds like a rejected fucking Jewel lyric.
Now, you may recall, when we talked about this, we struck upon a compromise, suggesting that Marlboro should be allowed to put branding on its packaging, so long as that branding was their new mascot, Jeff the diseased lung in a cowboy hat.
We even took out an ad at a bus stop in Uruguay and shipped a box of Jeff t-shirts to Togo.
We encouraged the rest of the world to spread the word about Jeff using the Hashtag #Jeffwecan.
And to our absolute joy, Jeff you did.
Jeff you did very much but it did not stop there.
Because and we had nothing to do with the rest of this There are now shockingly good animated videos of Jeff on YouTube, as well as this bus stop ad in Germany, featuring text which roughly translates as, break the tobacco industry.
Which is fantastic.
Quick note, if you're going to reference Kim Kardashian's break the Internet photo shoot, you should really make Jeff look like this.
So that's just they were both good.
It's just, if you.
.
The point is the point is, it actually gets one step better because incredibly, someone made an elaborate full Jeff costume, and sent us a video from Mexico city of him dancing around onstage at a rally.
Gracias, Mexico.
Muy bueno.
You should all feel free to continue whatever Jeff-based madness you see fit.
But by way of thanks, we wanted to give something back to you.
In the words of the great poet Philip Morris international.
A dance is only meaningful if it's danced.
So please now welcome Jeff and the diseased lung line dancers to perform the soon-to-be international dance craze, the Jeff! Ok.
That's, that's our show, everybody! Good night! Thank you so much for joining us! We'll see you again next week! Jeff, are you ok? You're ok, Jeff.
Goodbye! 

Welcome, welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight.
" I'm John Oliver.
Thank you for being with us.
Just time for a quick recap of the week.
And, and we begin with Isis.
The Ebola of people.
They've had themselves a bit of an up-and-down week.
Because on one hand, they were mostly driven out of Tikrit in Iraq, but on the other hand, they gained a new ally.
Isis is expanding from the Middle East to new territories.
In west Africa the extremist group accepted a pledge of allegiance from Nigeria-based Boko Haram.
Yes, Boko Haram has apparently pledged allegiance to Isis.
And you can't deny they do go together like, like peanut butter and jelly.
Or, or more specifically, like diarrhea and spoiled monkfish.
But strangely, the merger was discussed this week in terms you'd normally associate with a more traditional type of acquisition.
The new alliance already evident online.
Boko Haram's Twitter account featuring a slick new look.
With the brand that they get with Islamic state, they can get more recruits, they can get more money, and they can get more media attention.
What Isis gets out of this, Charlie, is a major advance for their brand.
What? A major advance for their brand? You're talking about two terror organizations, not a merger between "Stragglr" and "The Daily Bounce.
" And yes, yes I made up the names of those two startups, but you get the point.
But, but the fight against Isis also got an unexpected recruit this week, because there was a benefit concert in the Kurdish region of northern Iraq featuring pretty much the last person you'd expect.
I'm kind of, you know, honored that this, this country has basically paid attention to Nelly, ha ha! Yes, yes.
Nelly performed a concert this week in Erbil.
And I'm glad he did.
Because if you've ever wondered, if Nelly was in an Islamic country, how would he be able to sing the lyrics to his most famous song, "it's getting hot in here, so take off all your clothes, I'm getting so hot, I'm gonna take my clothes off"? Then then you now have an answer.
It's getting hot in here, so take off I am getting so hot I'm gonna It's getting hot in here so take off all your ladies.
.
I all out.
The, the problem is those edits really change the meaning of that song because now it's just a man complaining about the heat and proposing no solution whatsoever.
That, that's not sexy.
Move, Moving on now to Ireland, Europe's Boston.
Home of more red hair than Debra messing's shower drain.
But Ireland had an interesting 24 hours this week, following a bizarre court ruling.
The possession of a range of psychoactive drugs has been made legal temporarily following a ruling by the appeal court.
The ruling means possession of drugs including ecstasy, magic mushrooms, and so-called head shop drugs is currently legal.
Yes, multiple drugs were accidentally legalized in Ireland for a day.
Although, although I will say this if you were waiting for ecstasy to become legal before trying it, you are probably not the type of person who's going to really take to ecstasy.
You might want to stick with taking Nyquil and spinning around three times.
It's basically the same.
But the best detail in this whole story was the underlying case that prompted the ruling.
I'll let an Irish newscaster fill you in.
A case was brought here before the court of appeal this morning by a man prosecuted for possession with intent to supply the legal high "meow meow.
" Yes, there is a drug called "meow meow".
I'm guessing side effects include aloofness and a heightened interest in string.
"You gotta try meow meow, bro.
The laser shows incredible.
" And finally, finally this week, we turn to Brazil, where even the Amazon rain forest looks like it's gotten a wax.
Now, President Dilma Rousseff has spent the all week dealing with developments and a corruption scandal which threatens to undermine her entire government.
Brazil's supreme court has approved an investigation into some of the country's top politicians.
They are accused of taking bribes in exchange for lucrative oil contracts from the state-run oil company, Petrobras.
Now, now when they say "taking bribes," this isn't your standard "five grand in an envelope left under a bench," because Brazil's largest construction and engineering firms allegedly paid at least $800 million in bribes and other funds to secure contracts.
$800 million! You'd need an amazing construction firm just to build a bench large enough to hide that bribe underneath.
More, more than 30 members of Rousseff's ruling coalition are under investigation, so she took to the airwaves this week to try and calm people down.
You have every right to get irritated and be worried, but I ask for patience and understanding because this situation is transitory.
Is it? How is it transitory? Because unless you're about to flash the entire country with one of those memory-erasing sticks from "men in black," I don't think people are going to forget about this.
In fact, Brazilians weren't even listening to her speech.
For a pretty loud reason.
Her critics had organized a kind of pot-banging protest.
And I was in Sao Paolo, leaned out the window and it sounded like a football game.
People were banging their pots and honking their horns.
Fuera! Fuera, Dilma! That's actually, that's actually a real form of protest called "Panelaco," which has been in south America for years and off Broadway for decades.
It's so entrenched, it's even taken place on the floor of Brazil's legislature.
Mi homenaje al pueblo brasileño! Now, I love everything about that, but the best detail there is the sign language interpreter.
Even he is banging invisible pots in disgust! And if you think the Brazilians are overreacting to this story, there's one more thing you should know about Rousseff's involvement in this scandal.
President Rousseff chaired the board of Petrobras for seven years when much of the corruption is believed to have taken place.
She's been cleared of any involvement in the scheme.
How has she been cleared? She chaired the board of Petrobras while the bribes were There's only one way to handle this.
.
And now this.
And now, newscasters who don't know about you.
I don't know about you guys but I've always heard that you're not supposed to fight fire with fire.
I don't know about you guys but I need a good kisser.
I don't know about you but I lived in the 1980's and the 1990's and the 2000's.
I don't know about you but it turns out I've been abusing a drug.
I don't know about you Chuck but I ate lot of Hot dog, growing up I don't know about you but when I think of flirting talk it's not of the racist nature.
I don't know about you but I don't need lactation service.
Moving on.
Our main story tonight concerns the fact that one of America's most sacred annual traditions is upon us.
Everything comes down to this oh, my goodness! Bring the noise.
As good as it gets.
March is on.
Holy shit! Yes, march is on! Fuck you, February! And April, I'll see you in hell! It's march o'clock, assholes! The, The first round, the first round of march madness, the year's biggest college tournament, starts on Tuesday and the entire nation will be watching.
Which means big, big money.
March madness now brings in over a billion dollars in TV ad revenue.
A billion dollars! That's more than the super bowl.
It's almost more than the entire NFL postseason, combined.
And that might seem like a lot, until you consider the number of ads they manage to pack in.
Sponsored by Lexus.
AT&T at the half is presented by AT&T.
Our game is brought to you in HDTV by HP Coke Zero presents real fans of NCAA march madness.
Pretty soon, the only thing left to sponsor will be the sponsorships themselves.
"And now, Pepsi presents a Geico look at Nabisco's "Toyota moment of the game" , brought to you by taco bell!" Because, because you should know everything about this tournament is branded.
Even the famous moment where players cut down the net.
Werner ladder proud to donate to the general scholarship fund of every school in this year's final four.
Werner, the official ladder of the NCAA basketball championships.
Are you kidding me? A Werner ladder? As a ladder enthusiast, I can tell you right now, Werners are pure shit.
Unless you want a broken back.
.
Then, by all means, go with Werner.
You'd be better off slapping on a pair of stilts and trying to balance on a yoga ball.
I'm a Dewalt man, of course.
I'm not a ladder idiot.
Seriously, there is nothing inherently wrong with a sporting tournament making huge amounts of money.
But there is something slightly troubling about a billion-dollar sports enterprise where the athletes are not paid a penny.
Because they aren't.
And as the head of the NCAA, Mark Emmert will tell you, they don't want that to change.
There's not even a salary to debate.
They're not employees, they're students.
The fact is, they're not employees.
They're student athletes.
I can't say often enough, obviously, that student athletes are students.
They are not employees.
The only other people who say "they're not employees" that much are people who run illegal sweatshops out of their basements.
"Oh they're not employees! It's a summer camp where they make the same t-shirt, over and over again, thousands of times.
" It, it's summer fun year round.
And the problem is, when you don't pay people, there are consequences.
One of the players who climbed the sponsored ladder last year was Shabazz Napier, who happened to let slip a startling fact after one of the games.
You know, sometimes I gonna say there's hungry nights where i don't.
.
I'm not able to eat and.
.
but I still gotta play up to my you know capabilities.
There are hungry nights that I go to bed and I'm starving.
That's insane.
Hunger games should take place annually in a Dystopian future, not every march sponsored by Coca-Cola on CBS.
The NCAA insists that student athletes cannot be paid because they are amateurs.
And though they've slightly softened their rules on food, among other things, in the last year, they still exercise a ridiculous amount of control over players.
Before they're allowed to compete, athletes have to sign this form saying that they are amateurs they give up any compensation for playing and promise to abide by all the rules in this 440-page manual.
A 400-odd page manual of rules.
The only other thing that has that many finicky little rules would be a sex party at Wes Anderson's house.
"Guests are required to wear lingerie of only a prewar, Andalusian vintage.
" "Fellatio may only be accompanied by music from The Kinks and early Cat Stevens.
" "And condoms shall be found nestled inside a small diorama of the sinking of the Lusitania.
" "Now everybody fuck.
" And, and look, the NCAA rule book is not just for show, as a new Mexico player discovered a few years back.
A discount on a hotel ballroom is the impermissible benefit and NCAA minor violation that caused Jamal Fenton to be suspended That's right.
He was suspended for unwittingly receiving a $250 discount on a ballroom for his 21st birthday party.
And by the way, a discounted ballroom.
Are we absolutely sure he was turning 21 and not celebrating his 40th wedding anniversary with his lovely wife, Marion? Because that would make more sense.
But, but the point is, some rule enforcements go from the petty to the downright heartless.
The late Rick Majerus when he was at Utah had one of his players who lost one of his parents, and he took him to lunch before putting him on a plane to send him home and the NCAA said that was a violation.
Because you can't give an athlete something you don't give another student.
Oh sure I get that.
If you show one player basic human decency then you have to show "everyone" basic human decency.
And nobody wants that.
And, and to be fair, to be fair here.
The NCAA claim that while student athletes are not being paid, they are being compensated with something incredibly valuable we provide them with remarkable opportunities to get an education at the finest universities on earth that's American universities and colleges.
Yes, athletes are paid in "an education.
" The only currency more difficult to spend than Bitcoin.
And, and look, a four-year education is undeniably valuable.
Assuming that one, you don't get hurt and lose your scholarship which can happen.
And two, that you have time to study.
Because if you're a student athlete playing top-level basketball or football, that can be difficult.
Listen to current NFL player Richard Sherman reminisce about his college days.
You wake up in the morning, you have weights at this time.
Then after weights you go to class and after class, you go, you go maybe try to grab you a quick bite to eat.
Then after you get your quick bite to eat, you go straight to meetings and after meetings, you've got practice and after practice, you've got to try to get all the work done you had throughout the day.
I would love for a regular student to, to have a student athlete's schedule, during the season, for just one quarter or one semester, and, and show me how you'll balance that.
He's right.
Paying top college athletes with an education is sort of like telling a full-time nurse, "there's no salary for this job.
We're just going to be giving you free trumpet lessons.
Which you'll be too busy to do.
But if you don't learn to play the trumpet, you're fired.
Does that sound fair?" I think that sounds fair.
And the education athletes do get is sometimes insultingly watered down.
Last year, an investigation revealed that the university of north Carolina had, for years, held fraudulent, so-called "paper" classes that boosted athletes' grades.
Football and basketball players, they would be enrolled, steered to and enrolled in a paper class in African-American studies.
So we can have a football player who in the spring might have a G.
P.
A.
Of 1.
4 but in the summertime we put him in three paper classes, and we get a, a, a-minus.
And lo and behold, he is academically eligible to play football in the fall.
And that's how the system worked.
Ok, lets not pretend there isn't something offensive about an African-American studies course being an easy major at that school.
"Here, just take this class investigating the social, political and cultural complexities inherent to the black American experience.
It'll be a fucking breeze!" Phoning , phone the thing in And it gets worse.
It gets worse because many student athletes at U.
N.
C.
Also left with an unusual language credit.
What language did you study? Swahili.
- Swahili? - Yes.
- Has that come in handy since you graduated? - No.
Not at all.
- What language did you take? - I took Swahili.
- Swahili? - Yes.
- Do you speak Swahili, a little bit? - As of right now, no.
Encouraging black student athletes to take bullshit Swahili courses is the kind of institutional prejudice which might well turn up in one of their African-American studies courses.
So, let's recap.
Student athletes don't get paid and sometimes don't even get educated.
But what they do get is the chance to learn from coaches who will take them under their wing and provide them with life lessons and valuable guidance.
Fuck you! And fuck me and fuck everybody.
That is fucking bullshit.
Now, now that, that is inspirational.
Someone should rea.
.
someone shoul really put that on a cat poster.
And, and while, while this mistreatment is happening it's a good poster.
It will lift your spirits.
While this mistreatment is happening, huge money is being made.
And not just while they're students.
Because sometimes the NCAA makes money off players years afterwards.
Case in point a few years ago, the NCAA proudly licensed this video game a game whose selling point was authenticity.
The crowd, the noise, the cheerleaders.
The intensity of the game.
The passion of the game.
It's all about authenticity.
The level of authenticity that we went to was extremely deep.
To be honest, I thought the only people that obsessed with how "authentic" something was like that the people from San Diego talking about Mexican food.
I get it, Kendall, but there are avocados everywhere now.
Ok? We've all got them now.
In fact, their game was so authentic, it created a bit of an awkward moment for Ed O'Bannon, a former UCLA star player who currently works at a car dealership in Las Vegas.
I was with a friend and he said that his son had a video game with me in it.
Hey, you want to go and check it out? I said yeah, of course.
Left handed, height, weight, skin color, everything.
Bald headed.
It was Yeah, it was, it was me for sure.
I'm thinking to myself, "wow, they got me on a video game.
" And while this kid was playing, he almost whispers it in my ear.
It was like, "you know, the crazy thing about this is you didn't get paid.
" Ok, First of all, I don't know who that kid was, but that's a dick move.
"Hey, Ed? Ed? Pretty crazy how you got nothing for this, right, Ed? Must be pretty humiliating, right, Ed? About you not getting any money for this, Ed? Ed? Pretty annoying, right, Ed? Are you annoyed, Ed? Are you annoyed right now, Ed? Is it annoying to you, Ed? They actually, they actually don't make that game anymore in part because Ed O'Bannon sued the NCAA over their rules on compensating athletes and won.
The NCAA is currently appealing that decision, which would allow players to be paid.
Partly because as they often claim schools could barely afford it.
14 schools out of the 1,100 last year actually had positive cash flow out of intercollegiate athletics.
It's anything but a money-making proposition for universities and colleges.
Exactly.
We have sports for exactly the same reason Mariah Carey has an acting career.
God, god knows it's not to make a profit.
It's for the love of the game, ok? That's the principle.
Now, he's not, he's not wrong that many departments barely break even.
Although that's a little misleading.
Because for the schools that generate most of the money, those losses are sometimes by design.
Profits are what's left when you account for expenses.
They can come up with an awful lot of expenses, an awful lot of salaries, they find a ton of ways to spend, a ton of money.
That's true.
In keeping with their non profit status, some schools spend money to make it look like they're not making too much money.
It's like when your rich friend buys Diesel jeans that already have holes in them.
"Come on, Brayden, we all know you can afford to have warm knees.
You're not fooling anyone, B! And when, and when rich schools do this to move money around, not-so-rich school end up getting into an arms race to compete.
It's one of the reasons why the 10 largest football stadiums in the country belong to colleges.
In fact, the university of Michigan has claimed that, on game days, their stadium is"the fourth-largest city in the state of Michigan.
" And incidentally, also the one with the fewest rusted-out auto plants now run by raccoons, so, you know.
They're doing their best.
But, but stadiums are just the beginning.
Alabama made an MTV cribs-style video showing off their ludicrously opulent football facilities.
One of, really, the best features, I think, of the locker room is the hydrotherapy area.
We have in here a hot tub and a cold tub, and really I use the term "tub," but really, they're pools.
Ok, I never thought I'd say this, but Alabama, stop showing off your ostentatious wealth.
Ok? And, and the crazy thing is, it, it's not just buildings that schools spend money on.
Mississippi state coach Dan Mullen was just given a raise, pushing his salary to $4 million a year.
$7 million a year for the next eight years, that's Alabama's coach Nick Saban's new deal.
The university of Kentucky announced a $52 million, seven-year contract extension with head basketball coach John Calipari.
Now, now before you get too shocked, remember America has a long, proud history of paying aging white men unconscionable amounts of money for screaming at people.
So there's precedent, I'm saying there's precedent there.
But all this makes it even harder to swallow when some coaches like Clemson's Dabo Swinney, a man who makes over $3 million a year insists that his players not get paid.
As far as paying players, professionalizing college athletics, that's where you lose me.
I'll go do something else, because, you know, there's enough entitlement in this world as it is.
Now.
Wait, wait, wait.
If you find that infuriating, you might like to know that "Dabo Swinney" is an anagram for "soybean wind.
" Which, which I think is fitting because he seems as pleasant as an edamame fart.
And, The fact and it's a fact that his name's an anagram for "soybean wind" is not relevant in this discussion, but I thought it's worth mentioning, because it feels like something he'd be annoyed by and would not want people to know on a wild basis.
Hashtag #soybeanwind.
And by the way, the logical point is Swinney has trademarked his name for use on shirts.
Because he's allowed to do that.
The NCAA manual explicitly states coaches are free to pursue "endorsement or consultation contracts.
" And players are acutely aware of this discrepancy.
Here's former university of Michigan basketball star Jalen Rose.
The revenue stream for coaches people underestimate.
You get paid from the school, you get paid from camps, you get paid from apparel company, have a TV deal, you have your radio show.
That's five revenue streams for the coach.
So when I come into practice and I miss a couple of shots and I dribble off my foot and coach says "Jalen, what's going on with you?" What's going on with me? My mother's lights are about to get cut off, that's my problem.
That makes sense, sometimes it's must be tough to focus on your lights-out shooting when your mother's lights are literally going out.
And if you're thinking, "well, they'll all get rich when they become professional athletes," that's true in a fractional number of cases.
Because less than 2% of college basketball and football players go pro.
So if you're an athlete who dreams of being a viking or a wizard, you probably have about the same chance of becoming an actual viking or an actual wizard.
And, and all of this assumes that they've managed to stay healthy because if they get injured, a whole host of other problems can emerge.
Fun fact The very first executive director of the NCAA stated he crafted the term "student athlete" in the 1950's, explicitly to avoid workers' comp for injured athletes.
And 60 years later, that term is still working.
Kyle Hardrick was so good that Oklahoma offered him a basketball scholarship in ninth grade.
But after a knee injury during practice his freshman year, he lost his scholarship.
And with medical bills piling up, he couldn't afford to stay in school.
If it was workmans' comp, my son would've been taken care of for the rest of his life.
He would have been able to finish his college.
To be fair, he was promised an education, and he got one.
A first-class education in how little schools sometimes give a shit about their student-athletes.
This whole system seems fundamentally flawed.
And yet the NCAA constantly insists there is no way athletes can be paid, even a nominal amount, because the notion of converting a student to a paid employee is something that is utterly antithetical to the whole principle of intercollegiate athletics.
It completely changes the entire notion of what college sports is all about.
You know what? I think he might be right.
If college sports is all about exploiting people then yes, paying athletes would absolutely change the entire notion of what college sports are all about.
And look, no, no one is saying that they need to be paid millions or hundred of thousands or the same amount, or even that every school needs to pay every athlete.
But to pay everyone zero when the kid selling their jersey at the campus bookstore gets $10 an hour seems a little bit strange.
And if it truly is all about the romance of amateurism, that's fine.
Give up the sponsorships and the TV deals, stop paying the coaches, and have teams run by an asthmatic anthropology professor with a whistle.
But if you're going to change nothing, at least be honest about the business you're engaged in.
Feel free to bring back your video games, but in the spirit of authenticity, that's seems to matter so much to you make them a little more accurate.
Rated E for exploitative.
New from LWT Sports March sadness 2015 The most authentic college basketball game of all time.
Because any game can give you the excitement of college athletics but that's only about 2% of your week.
For the first time, you'll get to experience the other 98%.
What are you, a fucking idiot? I'm going to fucking kill you.
You pass like a fucking pussy! You get to enjoy all the fun of being screamed at by a middle-aged millionaire while living in constant fear of losing your scholarship, breeding from a career-ending injury, accidentally accepting a free lunch when you're hungry or directly profit in any way for the value of your work.
Because making moneys utterly antithetical to the whole principle of collegiate athletics.
But don't take it from us.
Take it from the unwilling star of NCAA basketball 2009, Ed O'Bannon.
This game is in every bit as fucked up as the real thing.
You can create your own player Join our extatic student athletes experience Because our game puts just as much emphasis on an education as a real NCAA division one school does.
Are you ready for your Swahili exam? Congratulations, student, you speak Swahili.
Now, back to the gym.
It's the most authentic college game of all time.
As another unpaid star of NCAA basketball 2009, Jalen Rose will attest yeah, that's pretty much what it's like.
And this year, if you play LWT'S NCAA march sadness, you can play in two new modes.
Coach mode, which consist mostly in screaming at 18-year-olds.
Assholes! Assholes! I'm gonna kill all of you this time, infernal assholes or you can choose school administrator mode, where your only job is figuring out how somehow remain a nonprofit.
You want a stadium across from your stadium? How about a rocket ship? But be careful.
Because if you use a penny of that money to pay your players Game over.
The point is, no matter which mode you choose, you're guaranteed all the joy of top-level college athletics.
March sadness 2015.
L.
W.
T.
Sports.
It's in the shame.
This game is some bullshit.
That's our show.
Thank you so much for watching.
See you next week.
Good night! 

Welcome, welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight".
I'm John Oliver.
Thank you for being with us.
Just time for a quick recap of the week.
And we begin in Israel.
Drama-wise, the opposite of Canada.
Now, Israel had their election this week, and despite being behind in the polls, prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu's likud party won resoundingly, which some credit to Netanyahu's last-minute swing to the even-farther right.
The Prime Minister, Netanyahu said yesterday on his watch, there's not going to be a Palestine, there's not going to be a two-state solution.
Wow.
Ok.
So no two-state solution then.
But hold on, let's not jump to conclusions.
Maybe he only said that because he's planning on a three-state solution, Israel, Palestine, and bonus Palestine.
We don't know.
We don't know for sure.
Let's accept in part due to that promise, Netanyahu looks like is here to stay.
And the problem that he now has is, how's he going to convince the U.
S.
that he's a credible partner for negotiation, given that he explicitly said he would not allow a two-state solution, but only a one-state solution? I don't want a one-state solution.
I want a sustainable, peaceful two-state solution.
But for that, circumstances have to change.
Now, that's pretty impressive because that is a Michael Jackson level of walking backwards.
He, he just demonstrated the verbal gymnastics of a guy caught being too honest on his first date.
I don't want kids.
Wait, hold on you want kids? I love kids, and in the right circumstances, I could absolutely see myself having them.
I never said I don't want kids.
This is why what Netanyahu just said is so amazing.
He was trying to escape something he'd said that had left him almost no wiggle room.
Asked if it meant, that meant there would be no Palestinian state if he were to continue as prime minister, Netanyahu responded, correct.
How do you get out of that? It's impossible.
I've got to say, if he somehow gets out of this, he should go on the road as Netanyahoudini.
Words cannot hold him! Let, let's move on to Starbucks the acoustic Alanis Morrisette album with a coffee house wrapped around it.
This week, Starbucks' CEO Howard Schultz unveiled a bold new initiative to his employees.
What if we were to write race together on every Starbucks cup and that facilitated a conversation between you and our customers? And if the customer asks you what this is, try and engage in a discussion that we have problems in this country with regard to race and racial inequality.
I think it's pretty clear, no one has said no to this guy in 25 years.
Look, heres the thing a conversation about race is clearly important, but there's a time and a place.
And it's not the length of time it takes to whip up a tiramisu frappucino.
But still, let's give Howard Schultz credit because he he did start a conversation across the racial divide with a white billionaire pitching an idea, and any number of African-American customers telling him how stupid it was.
Not sure what Starbucks was thinking.
I don't have time to explain 400 years of oppression to you and still make my train.
I'm not sure that systemic change is going to happen by talking to your barista at Starbucks.
He's right about that because think about it best case scenario, you get a heartfelt conversation about race going, only to have it justifiably interrupted by someone screaming, can we solve racism later? I'm late for fucking work.
And the problems didn't stop there, because Starbucks wound up having some conversations about race that they probably hadn't anticipated.
Some critics say the company's executive team likes diversity.
Many people put up a link to the company's website, actually featuring picture of mostly white, mostly male leadership.
The race together campaign is taking a lot of flack online with many people bashing the company on Twitter including some questioning why Starbucks promotional photos only included white hands.
Hey! How's that conversation on race going, Starbucks? Lots of fun, right? What if this could be every morning? But it was what happened as a result of that backlash that shows you how unprepared Starbucks really was for this conversation.
Starbucks' own V.
P of communications temporarily deleting his Twitter account under an avalanche of criticism saying he felt personally attacked in a cascade of negativity.
Ok.
End of conversation, I guess everyone.
Good talk, good talk people.
Nice try, Starbucks! I guess now at least you can go back to doing what you do best, burning coffee and glaring at us for using your bathrooms without buying anything.
Just stay in your lane.
And finally, tonight, New Hampshire where live free or die is a legitimately difficult choice.
It has always held a special place in American politics, and earlier this month, some local fourth graders visited the state capitol to learn how government worked.
As part of a civics project, a group of fourth graders including 9-year-old Mya Roka, crafted a bill to make the red-tailed hawk the official state raptor.
Mr Cutting's fourth-grade class arrived in the house gallery to watch their bill come up for a vote, they were greeted by enthusiastic applause.
Well, that's fantastic.
What a great opportunity for the kids to engage in the political process and be inspired.
I can only presume that their state raptor bill sailed right through.
We already have a state bird but now do we need a state raptor? Isn't that a bird? Isn't that an animal? So are we going to have, you know, flightless birds, water fowl, pet birds, garden birds, wild birds? How many of these bills do we need to have? If we keep bringing more of these bills and bills, and bills forward that really I feel we shouldn't have in front of us, we'll be picking a state hot dog next.
What is wrong with you? A: this doesn't matter.
B: the children are in the room.
And C: this doesn't matter.
Just vote yes and make them happy.
And sadly, the story didn't end there.
Because state representative Warren Groen also decided it was appropriate to use the red-tailed hawk to make a completely unnecessary point.
It is known for extremely strong and sharp talons.
Which, which it grasps its prey But it graps it with its talons then uses its razor sharp beak to rip its victim to shreds and to basically tear it apart limb by limb.
And I guess the shame about making this a state bird is it would serve as a much better mascot for planned parenthood.
What the fuck are you talking about? For a start for a start, everyone knows planned parenthood already has a mascot! It's plan bee, the planned parenthood bee Hey guys, did you hear the buzz on spermicidal lubricant? No, thank you, plan bee.
You're the best.
And this wasn't just a few cranks.
The legislature actually defeated the children's bill, a 133 to 160 and presumably, then celebrated by looking up at the kids and saying, nice try, idiots.
By the way, Santa's not real and Dora the explorer can't hear you.
Now, this must have been devastating for the kids.
But if their stupid state government will not properly honor the red-tailed hawk, then we will.
And that is why I'm proud to announce the red-tailed hawk is the new official raptor of "Last Week Tonight".
Here it is, a real live predatory hawk in a television studio.
And to show just how wrong New Hampshire legislators were to deny those fourth graders from Lincoln Akerman school their red hawk request, we've prepared this.
Red-tail hawks, the official raptor of "Last Week Tonight".
Why? Because they f-in rock! They'll take out a rattlesnake.
Chill on a basketball hoop Then they feed their babies But wait, that's not all.
They'll grab a Pheasan while doing a midair 360.
Let's watch that again! But don't just take it from us.
Here some Red-tail hawk fact from a guy in the 90's Red-tail hawk found all in the North America probably the most common bird of prey in the US This guy's incredible.
Give me more hawks facts, man.
Most of the book estimate their grasp in strength is about 200 pounds per square inch pressure.
One more hawk fact.
The stooping speed for the Red-tail hawk is about 100-120 miles an hour.
That's enough hawk facts And all this is why the red-tail hawk is "Last Week Tonight" official raptor.
Raptor scream! Congratulations, fourth graders! Red hawks are awesome! And now, this.
Top of the morning to you there Patrice, how are you doing there? Top of the morning to you.
Top of the morning to you! - Top of the morning to you, ??? - Top of the morning to you! And top of the morning to you! Happy St.
Patrick's day.
Oh, it's St.
Patrick's day today.
Happy St.
Patrick's day, everybody.
- A wee bit of a parade there.
- Wee bit Kept up their makeup on, they had their beautiful outfit ready I can't do an irish accents.
"Hello lads" - What are you talking about, Brad? - It's.
.
You sound Jamaican.
I sound Jamaican? Moving on.
Our main story tonight concerns municipal violations.
They're the small, everyday ways of breaking the law, like speeding, or trespassing, or and this is true, failing to vaccinate your ferret.
That's actually against the law.
Sorry, ferret Jenny McCarthy.
But you're just going to have to get it done.
The point is, we have all committed municipal violations.
And if you've never gotten a ticket for one, all I can say is congratulations on not getting caught.
Now, for most people, tickets are just annoying.
We grin and bear them or, as in this case of this young woman, throw a passive-aggressive tantrum.
Citations for? I know.
My headlights weren't on, yada, yada, yada.
Yes.
You're right.
It's a citation for not having your head lights on.
Take a loose ticket on before the third of, whoa Let me explain, ok? I have I totally get it.
Like, it's a ticket.
I need to pay it.
I'm late.
You just know that woman behaves that way in every situation.
Yah, I totally get it.
It's a funeral.
Mindy was a person, now she's gonna be, like, eaten by worms.
Just, just put her in the ground so I can get to soul cycle.
I'm late.
Now, she's probably not thought about that ticket until, I'm guessing, around about now, when she's getting a lot of text messages from friends saying.
Amber, you're totally on HBO right now shouting at a cop.
But if you don't have enough money to pay a fine immediately, tickets can wreck your life.
Let me introduce you to a woman named Harriet Cleveland.
She had some low-level traffic tickets.
But because she couldn't pay them straight away, she accumulated all kinds of other fees and additional tickets, which despite her best efforts she was unable to pay off.
And then, one morning, this happened.
I had my grand baby with me and I was sitting up giving him breakfast that morning and I heard a knock on the door.
I seen the police officer at my door.
And in the back of my mind it wasn't for me, because I didn't figure they come get you for tickets.
I was escorted to jail.
And if you're thinking, how the fuck is it possible for a grandmother to go to jail for traffic tickets? Well, that is what this story is about because let's start at the beginning.
Most tickets come with a fine.
And if you've ever lived paycheck to paycheck, you know that can be difficult.
For example, in Dekalb county, Alabama, a speeding ticket is $255.
50.
If you earn minimum wage there, $7.
25 an hour, it would take you more than 35 hours of work to pay that off, which seems harsh.
Because the only justifiable way you should lose an entire week of your life due to speeding is if you hit 88 miles an hour and go back in time.
And sometimes, governments will take a reasonable base fine and turn it into something people may not be able to afford, as they have done in California.
The actual fine for running a stop sign is $35, but by that time the state tax on ten different surcharges and fees, the amount you owe jumps to $238.
Now, just to put that in perspective, I went on e-bay this morning, and $238 is the current asking price for this glorious unicorn with wheels on its hooves.
So that's right, if you live in California and run a stop sign, you can either pay your ticket or own a unicorn.
Now, now courts know that not everyone can pay fines straight away, which is why some allow a payment plan.
Unfortunately, that can turn out to be even more expensive.
In Illinois, the state adds on 30% if you fall behind in your payments.
In New Orleans, it costs you 100 bucks just to sign up for a payment plan.
Yes.
Your payment plan begins with a payment plan payment.
It's like your probation officer is M.
C.
Escher.
Just go pay the clerk at the top of that endless staircase.
You'll be fine.
And this situation is widespread.
At least 44 states charge people a fee to be on probation.
And many municipalities use these charges as a way to fund local services without raising taxes.
And if that rings a bell at all to you, it may be because of Ferguson, Missouri.
Because when the recent department of justice report uncovered institutional racism, it found one of the ways it manifested was in the use of fines as a cash machine.
The report says officers competed to see who would write the most tickets.
It also concludes police officers promotions depended on citation revenue.
Then there's the story of a police commander who one day bragged to his superiors about seeing a steady stream of people, 10 to 15 deep, waiting in line for hours to pay traffic fines.
He wrote, the court clerk girls have been swamped, and the city manager responded, great work.
Ok.
Setting aside the fact he used the phrase, "court clerk girls", that situation is ridiculous.
The only people who should be that excited about people waiting in line to hand over way too much money are apple executives.
That's the only time.
And if you couldn't pay immediately in Ferguson, they could bleed you dry.
Listen to just one example.
In 2007, one woman received two parking tickets that together totaled $152.
To date, she has paid $550 in fines and fees to the city of Ferguson.
Yet today she still inexplicably owes Ferguson $541.
That's more than $1,000 for $150 in tickets.
Even people stocking hotel minibars are thinking, that markup seems a little high.
Just settle down.
And the thing is, using fines to fund government was not happening just in Ferguson, as a recent study of the surrounding area showed: According to court records, eight towns rely on court fines and fees for more than 30% of their revenue.
Calverton park is at the 66% level.
66%? When that much of your budget comes from fines, you're actually rooting for people to break the law.
Listen, everyone, we're going to have to close the library unless someone urinates up that wall and the rest of us start driving like maniacs.
So put the pedal to the metal.
Let's do it for the kids! And, and the problem is, in these situations, the poor get hurt the worst.
In many states, failure to pay a fine on time Can even result in having your driving license suspended.
In fact, this is such a common practice, that in orange county, Florida, they even made an event out of it.
The Grinch himself showed up in orange county with a bag full of licenses belonging to drivers who have been more naughty than nice.
We're sending the message that if you're going to come out here and you gonna drive in a manner that affects somebody else's life or safety, then we're going to impact your life.
Ok, Ok.
First of all, you do know the Grinch is the bad guy in that story, right? It's not about a brave green crime fighter who saves Whoville from a guy driving his sleigh ten miles over the speed limit.
But secondly, the Grinch's argument that this was about affecting people's lives and safety was somewhat undercut a little later in the same report.
Many of these licenses were suspended simply because the drivers didn't pay a traffic ticket.
Exactly.
Those licenses Weren't all taken from reckless drivers.
Odds are, they were mostly taken from insolvent drivers.
In 2012 in Florida, a staggering 88% of all license suspensions were due to failure to comply with summons or fines, which is insane.
It also leaves only 12% for Florida's other most common violations.
Accidentally taking your golf cart on the freeway, feeding meth to an alligator, feeding an alligator to a meth dealer, and being an alligator meth dealer.
Florida.
The problem is, the problem is if you do lose your license, it can affect everything.
Most Americans drive to work.
And if you can't do that, you've got a problem.
In New Jersey, a survey of low-income drivers who'd had their license suspended found that 64% percent had lost their jobs as a result, which doesn't help anyone.
You need them to pay their fine, but you're taking way their means of paying it.
That's the most self-defeating idea since gay conversion camp.
Hey, don't worry, boys.
We'll fix you.
It's swimming in the morning.
Wrestling in the afternoon in the evening general horse play in the woods.
You'll be fine.
You'll be fine, chaps.
So let's, let's recap, if you get a ticket and you can't pay it, you may get additional fines, lose your license, and eventually your job.
And if you're thinking, is there any way this whole situation can be made even worse? Relax, there is.
Because now private companies have somehow managed to insert themselves.
Private probation companies across the US supervise people who are on probation for minor offense, collect all of their outstanding debts and fines and court costs and they won't charge the courts a penny.
Instead, probationers pay them fees in exchange for their services.
Yes, companies like judicial correction services and sentinel offender services offer to supervise probationers and collect fees on the court's behalf, at no cost.
They even market themselves with ads like this one, for J.
C.
S.
, trumpeting the millions of dollars they collect for municipalities.
The problem is that money is a lot like Wendy's chili.
It's fantastic to have, just as long as you don't think about where it came from Because it can come from people like Hali Woods August of last year, I got a no seat belt ticket.
How much was that ticket for? It was The ticket was $25 and court costs was $16, which was 41, and then I didn't have the money to pay, so they put me on JCS probation.
That's right, Hali was handed over to J.
C.
S.
probation because she couldn't pay a $41 ticket.
They put her on a payment plan with a monthly fee of $35.
The problem for Hali was, any money she sent in was applied to her J.
C.
S.
Fees first and not her $41 ticket, which put her in a hamster wheel of hell.
This one right here shows I paid another $10.
It shows that the fees went down but the fine is still $41.
I've told the judge that I had the money to pay for the ticket and I couldn't afford the rest of the fees and he said that that wasn't his problem and that I could just put that $41 towards the probation.
And then I got another one that shows I paid $41 even and the fine has not been touched not one time all the money I've paid.
Wow.
So if you have money, the state's slogan is click it or ticket.
But if you don't, it should really be buckle yourself or go fuckle yourself.
And in case you're somehow not angry enough by now, just remember how the system works if you do have money.
I know! My headlights weren't on, yada yada yada.
Let me explain.
Ok? I have.
.
I totally get it.
Like, it's a ticket.
I need to pay it.
I'm late.
You didn't think it was possible to dislike her anymore, did you? Amber, you're back on TV, this is sick.
And, and it's not just that these private probation companies can take your money.
Their recommendations to the court can ultimately send you to jail.
Take the case of Tom Barrett He is a veteran who stole a $2 can of beer, which he knows he should not have done.
And when he couldn't pay his fine, he was referred to sentinel offender services.
In addition to all their other fees, they gave Tom a court-ordered leg monitor, for which they charged him $360 a month, $12 a day.
To keep up on his payments, he had to start selling his own plasma.
And where do you think this story ended? I ended up having to walk everywhere because I didn't I couldn't afford bus fare.
I went hungry because I couldn't afford food.
It was $12 a day and there was no way I could make $12 a day, so I thought I was falling behind.
So I ended up getting locked up 3 times over stealing this can of beer.
Locked up three times over stealing one can of beer.
That's not justice, that's the plot of "Suddenly - Les Miserables.
" I dreamed a dream I stole a Coors And then some assholes put me in jail The, the crazy thing is, The most insane part of this is the main reason municipalities sign contracts with these companies is to save money.
And yet, this whole system doesn't even make sense on a financial basis.
Because as Tom Barrett's lawyer explains, locking him up was expensive.
I know that jailing cost $50 a day, and I think he was probably in jail for at least 60 days or 70 days, so probably over $3,500.
So just think about that, a $2 can of beer caused a $270 fine, which the city spent over $3,000 to try and enforce.
You know, it's like they say, you got to spend money to make money to be able to afford to jail people to lose money.
That's the system, right? And, and all this brings us right back to where we began, with Harriet Cleveland, because her story touches on pretty much everything we've seen so far.
How did Harriet wind up in jail? Well, she struggled to pay traffic tickets, had her license suspended, had to keep driving or she'd lose her job, was then caught driving without a license, ticketed again, and then had her fines handed over to the good people at J.
C.
S.
And I'll let her pick the story up from there.
I just really lost a whole lot of money paying to them that didn't go on to my fine.
I lost my car trying to pay them.
I did a title loan on my car and lost that and trying to pay my utility bills you know and they getting shut off here and there.
I wanted to pay my fine, but I couldn't afford it, and like I said it just hurt real hard.
And I didn't even have to take.
.
But I had to take something until it got to the point I just got tired and I couldn't take anything anymore.
I paid them $2,000 one time when I got my income tax, and that was in February.
And then march I just didn't have anything else to give them.
That is awful.
Now the southern poverty law center eventually managed to get her out of jail after 10 days, arguing that she'd been sent to what was effectively a debtor's prison, something that was supposed to have been fucking outlawed in America in the 1830's.
But the truth is, whether through private probation or just the states, many people are being caught in the same cycle as all the people we've seen.
And let's be clear.
No one is saying that people who break the law shouldn't be punished.
This isn't about being soft on crime.
Listen to Tom Barrett's self-proclaimed conservative Republican lawyer.
If someone violates the rules of society they need to be punished.
But the punishment needs to have some if it's going to be based on a fine it has to be based on the person's ability to pay.
If they don't have the ability to pay, they can pick up trash on the streets, or they can have some community service.
Yeah.
I think pretty much everyone would agree with that.
Not only should municipalities not be balancing their books on the backs of some of their most vulnerable citizens, but we cannot have a system where committing a minor violation can end up putting you in and I'm going to use a legal term of art here the fuck barrel.
We can't have that.
And it might be time that we all stood up and said so.
I'm a hostess.
I'm a barista.
I'm a cashier.
I'm a utility inspector.
I'm a hair stylist.
I'm a janitor in cook.
We're all Americans and we have the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
But sometimes in that pursuit we also need the right to fuck up once in a while without it completely destroying our lives.
I've jaywalked before.
All the time, actually.
I have gotten a speeding ticket.
Yeah I mean I publically urinated maybe once or twice.
Public drunkenness.
Of course, I've been drunk in public, baby I got a ticket for spitting on the floor I got a ticket for petty loitering.
I got arrested for smoking weed at a concert.
And then I met GZA from Wutang and he gave me a V.
I.
P.
pass back into the concert So thank you GZA.
Yes, thank you GZA.
And when we truly made a mistake We're all willing to pay a price but that price should be reasonable and private companies should not be profiting.
From someone inability to pay.
One time, I put a Popsicle on my friend's ass.
Ok, that doesn't really apply to what we are talking about here.
But thanks for sharing.
The point is this is everyone's problem, young, old, black, white.
It's not about race.
It's definitely about race.
Race definitely plays, plays into it for sure.
I highly doubt that loitering thing I got would have happened to me if I was forget about me being white.
If I was a couple of shades lighter.
Ok, you're right, it's absolutely about race as well, but it's also about basic fairness and it has to to stop because people cannot end up in the fuck barrel for the little stuff we all do.
So it's time for us all to come together and say as one shut down the fuck barrel.
Shut down the fuck barrel.
I said, shut down the fuck barrel.
Shut down the fuck barrel, please.
Yes, shut down the fuck barrel! Shut it down! That's our show.
Thank you so much.
We're off next week, so we'll see you in two weeks.
Good night! 

Welcome, welcome, welcome to "Last Week Tonight"! I'm John Oliver.
A slightly longer edition of my show tonight for reasons that will become clear later, but just time for a quick recap of the week.
And we begin tonight with Iran.
The greatest threat to Salman Rushdie since Padma Lakshmi's divorce attorney.
All week long all week long, the world's attention was focused on the Iranian nuclear talks, taking place in Switzerland.
And for much of the week, we only had tantalizing glimpses of some of the main players.
I want to show you some buzz feed video of John Kerry taking a walk.
This is the first time we've seen the secretary of state in quite a long time.
And you can see the distance.
He's across the street from the hotel, getting some air.
Tourists here chanting "I love you, John Kerry.
" Wait.
I love you, John Kerry? Let's be clear, no lucid human has ever said those words.
Even his wife has, as at most, said, certain aspects of your personality are not displeasing, John.
But that's as far as anyone can physically go.
That talks actually extended well past their initial deadline, which is hardly surprising, given that they took place in the hotel beau rivage palace and if you think it looks spectacular from the outside, wait till you see their promotional video.
Welcome to the hotel beau rivage palace.
This 15,000-square foot spa is the first of its kind in Switzerland.
The hotel's restaurants include Anne-Sophie pic of beau rivage palace.
The 169 elegant rooms and sumptuous suites are spacious, elegant, and exquisitely appointed.
Ok.
I'm just gonna say it, I want to have sex with that hotel.
Not in that hotel.
With it.
I want to fuck that hotel is what I'm saying.
My point is, why would any diplomat rush to close a deal in that place? We went on their website and found they offer, and this is true, not just Japanese bath treatments but also, an upcoming hotel bar show featuring funk rock band The Inglorious Fonkers.
Oh, sorry, you hadn't heard of The Inglorious Fonkers? Well, prepare to have that changed forever.
That is the quintessential sound and look of Swiss hotel funk.
But incredibly, despite all the hotel's attractions, Thursday brought a huge announcement.
Today, nearly round the clock negotiations with Iran about how to curb its nuclear program finally produced the framework of a deal.
Wow, now, if this holds, that is a generali massive achievement.
And the very next day, the Iranians proved how excited they were.
After marathon negotiations, Iran's foreign minister, Jouad Sharif arrived home a hero, especially among the young, who hope a nuclear deal will bring their country in from the cold.
At Friday prayers, there were the usual chants of "death to America," but more habit than conviction.
That's good, I guess.
More habit than conviction.
You know, like an atheist saying god bless you when you sneeze, or Billy Joel singing "piano man".
You, you know that song's just mouth noises to him at this point.
But look, before we all get to the excited, I should, I should point out that this deal is not technically a deal yet.
Our work is not yet done.
The deal has not been signed.
Between now and the end of June, the negotiators will continue to work through the details of how this framework will be fully implemented.
And those details matter.
And look, that won't be easy.
But just think of how incredible it'll be if they do it.
Just picture the scene.
They're at the hotel Beau Rivage Palace.
They've just signed a historic deal.
It's may the 7th, and drifting up from the hotel bar is this sound.
We have peace! Peace in our fonking time! Moving on to Nigeria.
The country whose prince is going to be sending you some of that money he owes you any day now.
After weeks of delay due to Boko Haram, last weekend, Nigeria finally held their election.
Nigeria has a new president.
The opposition candidate, retired major general Muhammadu Buhari, defeating incumbent good luck Jonathan.
Jonathan issued a statement thanking Nigerians for the, quote, "great opportunity to lead the country.
" Ok.
Thanking people for the great opportunity is a weird tone for a world leader.
Because he sounds more like a temp who's leaving after covering someone's maternity leave.
Thanks for this great opportunity.
Keep my resume on file in case Linda gets pregnant again.
Now, who here can tell me my name? Goodluck Jonathan leaves behind a mixed legacy.
But the very fact he conceded is actually a major step forward for Nigerian democracy because this election was something of a milestone for them.
This was the first real contest in Nigeria's history, which is riddled with coups and rigged elections.
But with a truly independent electoral commission and the introduction of electronic voter registration, a lid was kept on any fraud and the power of the people won through.
That's absolutely fantastic because whilst they've had supposedly democratic elections before, and they looked a lot like the real thing, they weren't quite it.
Much like imitation crab or Dave Franco.
Just not quite what you were promised.
So Nigeria's new leader will be Muhammadu Buhari.
And we actually have some inkling of how he may be as a leader, because he's done it before.
After Buhari last took power in a coup in 1983, he brutally attacked corruption, setting up military tribunals, executing drug dealers publicly and punishing bureaucrats who arrive late for work forcing them to do squats.
That's actually true.
His government literally forced civil servants young and old to do squat jumps, as punishment to something that looks like this.
Which means, in the past, he's basically been the military dictator version of Jillian Michaels.
Ben your [Beep] knees or I'm going to break them with this poll.
You're not acting [Beep] strong! You're acting pathetic! Get the [Beep] up, unless you faint, puke, or die keep walking! Ok, I take it back, it's pretty clear the military dictator version of Jillian Michaels is Jillian Michaels.
But finally this week, president Obama.
America's 44th "not my president.
" He's, he's selling jobs initiatives on the road at the moment, and this week he landed in unfriendly territory.
President Obama is heading to Utah late tonight, deep red Utah, a state in which he only managed to get 25% of the vote back in 2012.
Wooh, Only 25%, ouch, it cannot be easy to go back somewhere where 3/4 of the people don't really care for you, which is why I spend most of my time in this country.
That's a hard fact.
And this, this was actually his first trip to Utah as president, which drew people's attention to a potentially insulting fact.
He's hit 49 of the 50 states as president.
The only one missing is South Dakota.
Yes, much like Uber and sweatshirts without glitter on them, the president has not yet made it to South Dakota.
And it's not like the people who live there have not noticed.
Well, it's official, South Dakota will become the only state without a visit from president Barack Obama.
South Dakota is the only state president Obama has not visited since taking office.
He's just saving the best for last.
Yeah, exactly, right.
Obama came close, when he was on the standing rock reservation last year.
Part of the reservation extends into South Dakota, but Obama stayed north of the border.
Oh, come on.
He was in the neighborhood and didn't drop by? That feels like he's doing this on purpose.
The only thing more insulting than that would be if he does go, but does it inside a giant plastic bubble.
I'm not technically here.
I'm not touching anything.
This doesn't count as a visit.
But maybe my favorite detail from South Dakota's coverage is how one anchor tried to segue into some more positive news.
It's unclear how soon Obama will visit south Dakota.
But with 21 months left on his term, he does have plenty of time.
Last week, the Denny Sanford premier center officials announced Rod Stewart will perform Saturday, July 25th in Sioux Falls.
That doesn't make it better, South Dakota.
A night with Rod Stewart is only a proper consolation prize if your original goal was to have sex with Peter Gabriel.
And it's not like the people of South Dakota haven't been trying to lure the president.
Their secretary of tourism even wrote to him in 2013.
Inviting him to visit pointing out his wife and daughters had visited mount Rushmore and saying ominously, now it is your turn.
This is all just getting so desperate.
And you haven't even seen their latest tourism ad.
Mr president, South Dakota is a beautiful historic state.
So why on earth haven't you visit us? You can see all South Dakota amazing attractions The Corn Palace, Wall Drug, that crazy horse monument that we're going to try to finish soon.
The corn palace again.
Some reptile garden people seem to like And of course the Corn Palace.
That's like six different things.
Plus, if you come, you can meet some real nice people.
There's Gus who closes the buffalo gate at dusk.
Stay put you crazy buffaloes.
There's Tony who rides his bike and points at squirrels.
And we've got hobo George R.
R.
Martin.
Come on Mr president.
Sure, we didn't vote for you either time.
But we love presidents so much, we carved them into a mountain and even have a whole wax museum devoted to you guy.
You can see a Jimmy Carter that will haunt your dreams, George W.
Bush at ground zero which I guess we thought was appropriate.
You know, this is Bill Clinton but no one's entirely sure.
And don't forget you can see Rod Stewart.
So we've got that going for us.
Come on, Mr.
president, I mean for crying out loud.
You've been to Montana.
That state nothing than barbed wire fences and goat fuckers.
I'm sorry I shouldn't have said that.
It's definitely true but we still shouldn't have said it.
The point is, please come to South Dakota, Mr.
president.
South Dakota, if you close your eyes you can pretend it's North Dakota.
Moving on.
Moving on.
Our main story tonight is government surveillance.
And I realize most people would rather have a conversation about literally any other topic, including is my smartphone giving me cancer? To which the answer is "probably" or do goldfish suffer from depression? To which the answer is, yes, but very briefly.
But, but the fact is, it's vital we have a discussion about this now, because an important date is just around the corner.
One big date to circle on the calendar when it comes to a very controversial subject, the re-authorization of the patriot act and all of the controversial provisions therein.
June 1st, they've got to come to an agreement to reauthorize or curtail those programs.
Yes, some controversial provisions within the patriot act are set to expire on June the 1st, so circle that date on your calendars, everyone.
And while you're at it, circle June 2nd as well, because that's Justin long's birthday.
You all forgot last year and he fucking noticed.
Now, over the last couple of years, you've probably heard a lot about strange-sounding programs such as X-Keyscore, Muscular, Prism, and Mystic which are, coincidentally, also the names of some of Florida's least popular strip clubs.
Welcome to X-Keyscore! Our dancers are fully unredacted and Tuesday is wing night.
But, but if you don't mind, I'd like to refresh your memory over some of this.
And let's start by focusing on the most controversial portion of the patriot act that's up for renewal.
Section 215, which I'm aware sounds like the name of an eastern European boy band.
We are section 215.
Prepare to have your hearts throbbed.
There's the, there's the cute one, the bad boy, the one who strangled a potato farmer, and the one without an iron deficiency.
They're incredible.
But the contents of the real section 215 is actually even more sinister.
It's called section 215, nicknamed the library records provision, which allows the government to require businesses to hand over records of any quote "any tangible things" including books, records, papers, documents and other items.
If that sounds broad, it's because it was very much written that way.
Section 215 says the government can ask for any tangible things, so long as it's for an investigation to protect against international terrorism, which is basically a blank check.
It's like letting a teenager borrow the car on the strict condition that they only use it for car-related activities.
Ok, mom and dad, I'm going to use this for a handjob in a Wendy's parking lot, but that is car-related, so I think I'm covered.
Section 215 is overseen by a secret intelligence court known as the FISA court.
And they interpreted it to mean the government could basically collect and store phone records for every American, the vast majority of whom, of course, have no connection to terrorism.
Unless aunt Cheryl has been gravely mischaracterizing the activities of her needlepoint club.
It's a sleeper cell, isn't it, aunt Cheryl? You'll hang for this, aunt Cheryl! You're a traitor and a terrible aunt! Not in that order! Now, the government will point out that under 215, they hold phone records, and not the calls themselves.
What hm, the intelligence community is doing is looking at phone numbers and durations of calls.
They are not looking at people's names, and they're not looking at content.
Yes, but that's not entirely reassuring because you can extrapolate a lot from that information.
If, if they knew you called your ex 12 times last night between 1:00 and 4:00 A.
M, for a duration of 15 minutes each time, they can be fairly sure that you left some pretty pathetic voicemails.
I don't care who's monitoring this call, Vicki.
We should be together! Pick up the phone, damn it! I am a human being! Not an animal! Now, the patriot act was written just after 9/11.
And for years, it was extended and reauthorized with barely a passing thought.
In fact, it became so routine that when it was extended in 2011, one newscast just tacked it onto the end of a report about a presidential short trip abroad.
Chip Reid, CBS NEWS traveling with the president in Deauville, France.
Also in France, by the way, president Obama signed into law a four-year extension of the terrorist fighting patriot act.
Also in France, by the way by the way he through that in like a mother telling her grown daughter that her childhood pet just died.
Oh, nice talking to you sweetie.
Also, by the way, Mr.
peppers is dead, see you at Christmas! Bang! But all of that was before the public was made aware of what the government's capabilities actually were.
Because that all ended in June of 2013.
Edward Snowden has just taken responsibility for one of the biggest government leaks in US history.
We learned that the government has the capacity to track virtually every American phone call and to scoop up impossibly vast quantities of data across the Internet.
Revelations that the NSA eavesdropped on world leaders.
If you've ever been to the Bahamas, the NSA Could have recorded your phone calls and stored them for a month.
Yeah, all that information was exposed by Edward Snowden.
And it's still kind of incredible that a 29-year-old contractor was able to steal top-secret documents from an organization that literally has the word "security" in its name.
Clearly, that was not great for them.
Because the only place where it should be that easy for employees in their 20's to steal is a Lids store.
Dude, are you sure I should take this? Relax, dude, it's a Miami Marlins cap.
We're not exactly selling Faberge eggs here.
It's still unclear exactly how many documents Edward Snowden stole.
Although he has consistently tried to reassure people that he put them in good hands.
Honestly, I don't want to be the person making the decisions on what should be public and what shouldn't, which is why rather than publishing these on my own, or putting them out openly, I'm running them through journalists.
That sounds great, but of course, it's not a fail-safe plan.
As was proven when the New York Times published this slide, but did such a sloppy job of blocking out redacted information that some people were able to read the information behind that black bar, which concerned how the US was monitoring Al-Qaeda in Mosul, a group now known as ISIS.
So essentially, a national security secret was leaked because no one at the times knows how to use Microsoft Paint.
And, and look, you can think that Snowden did the wrong thing, or did it in the wrong way.
But the fact is, we have this information now, and we no longer get the luxury of pleading ignorance.
It's like you can't go to Seaworld and pretend that Shamu's happy anymore, when we now know at least half the water in her tank is whale tears.
We know that know, you can't unknow that information so you have to bear that in mind.
But here's the thing, it's now two years later, and it seems like we've kind of forgotten to have a debate over the content of what Snowden leaked.
A recent Pew report found that nearly half of Americans say they're not very concerned or not at all concerned about government surveillance, which is fine, if that's an informed opinion.
But I'm not sure that it is.
Because we actually sent a camera crew to Times Square to ask some random passersby who Edward Snowden was, and what he did.
And these are the responses that we got.
I have no idea who Edward Snowden is.
I have no idea who Edward Snowden is.
I've heard the name I just can't picture it right now exactly who it is.
Edward Snowden? No, I do not.
Just for the record, that wasn't cherry-picking.
That was entirely reflective of everyone we spoke to.
Although, to be fair, some people did remember his name.
They just couldn't remember why.
He sold some information to people.
He revealed some information that shouldn't have been revealed.
I think from what I remember is that the information that he shared was detrimental to our military secrets and keeping our soldiers and our country safe.
Leaking leaked documents about the US army's operations in Iraq.
Edward Snowden revealed a bunch of secrets, I guess, or information, into Wiki, Wikileaks.
Edward Snowden leaked, uh, he's in charge of Wikileaks.
Edward Snowden revealed a lot of documents through Wikileaks.
Ok, so here's the thing.
Edward Snowden is not the Wikileaks guy.
The Wikileaks guy is Julian Assange.
And you do not want to be confused with him.
Partly because he was far less careful than Snowden in what he released and how.
And partly because he resembles a sandwich bag full of biscuit dough wearing a Stevie nicks wig.
And that is, that is critical.
Julian Assange is not a likable man.
Even Benedict Cumberbatch could not make him likeable.
He's uncumberbatchable.
That was supposed to be physically impossible.
But, but I don't blame people for being confused.
We've been looking at this story for the last two weeks, and it is hard to get your head around.
Not just because there so many complicated programs to keep track of, but also because there are no easy answers here.
We all naturally want perfect privacy and perfect safety, but those two things can not co-exist.
It's like how you can't have a bad-ass pet falcon and an adorable pet vole named Herbert.
Either you have to lose one of them, which you obviously don't want to do or you have to accept some reasonable restrictions on both of them.
Now, to be fair, the NSA Will argue that just because they can do something, doesn't mean that they do do it.
And that there are restrictions on their operations such as the FISA court, which must approve requests for foreign surveillance.
But in 34 years, that court has approved over 35,000 applications, and only rejected 12.
Yes, much like Robert Durst's second wife, the FISA court is alarmingly accepting.
Listen Robert, I'm not going to ask too many questions, I'm just gonna give you the benefit of a doubt you clearly don't deserve.
At least tell him to blink and burp less.
The burping might be the most troubling thing about that show.
So so maybe it is time for us to talk about where the limits should be.
And the best place to start would be section 215.
Not just because it's the easiest to understand, but because there's widespread agreement it needs to be reformed.
From the president to Ted Cruz to both the ACLU and the NRA To even the guy who wrote the thing in the first place.
I was the principal author of the patriot act.
I can say that without qualification.
Congress never did intend to allow bulk collections when it passed section 215, and no fair reading of the text would allow for this program.
Think about that.
He was the author.
That is the legislative equivalent of Lewis Carroll seeing the teacups ride at Disneyland and saying, this has to be reined in.
No fair reading of my text would allow for this ride.
You've turned my perfectly nice tale of psychedelic pedophilia into a garish vomitorium.
This is not what I wanted.
And even the NSA has said that the number of terror plots in the US that the section 215 telephone records program has disrupted is one.
And, and it's worth noting that particular plot involved a cab driver in San Diego who gave $8,500 to a terror group.
And that is the shittiest terror plot I've ever seen other than the plot of "A good day to die hard.
" But here, here's the big problem here, if we let section 215 get renewed in its current form, without serious public debate, we're in trouble.
Because section 215 is the canary in the coal mine.
If we can't fix that, we are not going to fix any of them.
And the public debate so far has been absolutely pathetic.
A year ago, a former congresswoman was discussing the 215 program on the news.
Watch what happened.
This vast collection of data is not that useful and infringes substantially on personal privacy.
I think at this point we should seriously consider not not - continue with section 215 and getting to -Congresswoman Harmon, Let me interrupt you congresswoman, let me interrupt you just for a moment.
We've got some breaking news out of Miami.
Stand by if you will.
Right now in Miami, Justin Bieber has been arrested on a number of charges.
The judge is reading the charges including resisting arrest and driving under the influence.
He's appearing now before the judge for his bond hearing.
Let's watch.
Oh, oh actually, you know what, bad news, we're going to have to interrupt your interruption of the Bieber news for a new interruption.
This time, featuring a YouTube video of a tortoise having sex with a plastic clog.
Let's watch.
That is essentially the current tone of this vitally important debate.
And, again, I'm not saying this is an easy conversation.
But we have to have it.
I know this is confusing.
And unfortunately, the most obvious person to talk to about this is Edward Snowden, but he currently lives in Russia.
Meaning if you wanted to ask him about any of these issues, you'd have to fly all the way there to do it.
And it is not a pleasant flight.
And the reason I know that is that last week, I went to Russia to speak to Edward Snowden.
And this is what happened.
Yes, last week I spent 48 paranoid hours in Moscow arguably the last place on earth where you can find an overweight Joseph Stallen impersonator arguing with an inconveniencing fake Lanin.
And after experiencing Russia famously warm hospitality.
I went to meet Edward Snowden who was supposed to show up in this room at noon.
However at five minutes after the interview was schedule to begin, I had a troubling thought.
I don't know.
Do you think he's coming? Yes he's coming.
Because my argument is why would he when you think about it? I've got 2,000 rubles that says he doesn't make it without understanding how much that is.
All I'm saying is, a 10-hour flight for an empty chair, I'm going to lose my shit.
Ok.
Turns out it may be a bit of a problem because our Russian producer booked us in a room directly overlooking the old KGB building and the home of the current federal security bureau.
And we've just been told they know we're here.
So hm, uh.
.
So that happened.
Hm, Just if, if the Russian, Russian KGB is listening ring the fire alarm if he's not coming.
Oh, shit.
Oh, god.
- So sorry for the delay.
- It's fine Holy shit! He actually came! Edward "fucking" Snowden, the most famous hero and/or traitor in recent American history.
And I started with a question designed to test his loyalties.
How much do you miss America? You know, my country is something that travels with me, you know? It's not just a geography.
.
That's already a way too complicated answer.
The answer is I miss it a lot.
The greatest country in the world.
I do miss my country.
I do miss my home.
I do miss my family.
Do you miss Hot pockets? Yes, I miss Hot pockets very much.
Ok, hm, the entire state of Florida? Let's just let that silence hang in the air.
Hm, truck nuts? - Do you miss truck nuts? - I don't know what they are.
Lucky for you, Edward.
Not just truck nuts.
Stars and stripes truck nuts.
That is two balls of liberty in a freedom sack.
You really thought ahead.
Well, at least one of us did, you know, because of the, the quandary, the Kafkaesque nightmare that you're in.
Ok.
Let's dive in.
Why did you do this? The NSA has the greatest surveillance capabilities that we've ever seen in history.
Now, what they will argue is that they don't use this for nefarious purposes against American citizens.
In some ways that's true.
But the real problem is that they're using these capabilities to make us vulnerable to them and then saying, wow, I have a gun pointed at your head I'm not going to pull the trigger.
Trust me.
So what's the NSA you want look like? Because you applied for a job at the NSA So you clearly see an inherent value in that shadowy organization? I worked with mass surveillance systems against Chinese hackers.
I saw that, you know, these things do have some purpose.
And you want your spies to be good at spying to be fair.
Right, what you don't want is you don't want them spying inside their own country.
Spies are great when they're on our side but we can never forget that they're incredibly powerful and incredibly dangerous and if they're off the leash they can come after us.
But just to be clear we're talking about two differents things here domestic surveillance and foreign surveillance right because domestic surveillance Americans give some other shit about.
Foreign surveillance they don't give any remote shit about.
Well, the second question is when we talk about foreign surveillance are we applying in ways that are beneficial? No one cares, no.
- It turns the spies - No, they don't give a shit.
We spied on Unicef, the children's fund.
Sure.
We spied on lawyers negotiating What was Unicef doing? I mean, that's the question here, isn't it? The questions are these programs valuable? Are we going to be safer when we're spying on Unicef and lawyers who are talking about the price of shrimp and clove cigarettes? I don't think people will say that's good.
I think they'll say I definitely don't care.
American do not give a shit I think you're right.
About foreign surveillance.
What some people do care about is whether Snowden considered the adverse consequence of leaking so much information at once.
How many of those documents have you actually read? I've evaluated all the documents that are in the archive.
You've read ever single one? Well, I do understand what I turned over.
But, but there is a difference between understanding what's in the documents and reading what's in the documents.
I recognize the concern.
Right, because when you're handing over thousands of NSA documents, the last thing you want to do is read them.
I think it's fair to be concerned about did this person do enough? Were they careful enough? Especially when you handling material, like we know you're handling.
Well, in my defense I'm not handling anything anymore, that has been passed to journalists and they were using extraordinary security measures to make sure that this is reported in the most responsible way.
But those are journalists with a lower technical skills set than you.
That's true but they do understand just like you and I do just how important it is to get this right.
So the "New York Times" took a slide, didn't redact it properly and in the end it was possible for people to see that something was being used in Mosul on Al-Qaeda.
That is a problem.
Well, that's a fuck-up.
It is a fuck-up and this thing do happen in reporting.
In journalism, we have to accept that some mistakes will be made.
This is a fundamental concept of liberty.
Right, but you have to own that thing.
You're giving documents with informations you know could be harmful which could get out there.
Yes.
If people act in bad faith.
You not even talking about bad faith, you're talking about incompetence.
We are.
But you will never be completely free from risk if you're free.
The only time you can be free from risk is when you're in prison.
While the risks were significant Snowden himself has made it clear he feels the rewards have been worth it.
You said in your letter to Brazil, I was motivated by a belief that the citizens of the world deserve to understand the system in which they live My greatest fear was that no one would listen to my warning.
Never have I been so glad to have been so wrong.
How did that feel? I was initially terrified that this was going to be a three-day story, everybody was going to forget about it, but When I saw that everybody around the world said "wow, this is a problem.
" We have to do something about this.
It felt like vindication.
- Even in America? - Even in America And I think we're seeing something amazing, which is if you ask the American people to make tough decisions to confront tough issues to think about hard problems, they'll actually surprise you.
Ok.
Here's the problem.
I did ask some Americans and boy, did it surprise me.
I have no idea who Edward Snowden is.
- You've never heard of Edward Snowden? - No.
I have no idea who Edward Snowden is.
I've heard the name, I just can't picture, think right now, exactly what it is.
Well, he's, hm, he sold some information to people.
He revealed some information that shouldn't have been revealed.
Edward Snowden revealed a lot of documents through Wikileaks.
Edward Snowden revealed a bunch of secrets, I guess, or information into Wiki, Wikileaks.
Edward Snowden leaked, he's in charge of Wikileaks.
- I'm in charge of Wikileaks.
- Not ideal.
I guess on the plus side you might be able to go home because it seems like no one knows who the fuck you are and what the fuck you did.
You can't expect everybody to be uniformly informed.
So, did you do this to solve a problem? I did this to give the American people a chance to decide for themselves the kind of government they want to have.
That is a conversation that I think the American people deserve to decide.
Oh, there's no doubt it is a critical conversation.
But is it a conversation that we have the capacity to have? Because it's so complicated, we don't fundamentally understand it.
It is a challenging conversation.
I mean, it's difficult for most people to even conceptualize.
The problem is, the Internet is massively complex and so much of it is invisible.
Service providers, technicians, engineers the phone numb.
.
Let, let, let, let me stop you right there, Edward because this is the whole problem.
Right.
This is the whole problem, I just, I glaze over because it's like the I.
T guy comes in your office and you go, oh, shit, - In fairness.
- Oh, shit.
Don't teach me anything.
I don't want to learn.
You smell like canned soup.
It's a real challenge to figure out, how do we communicate things that require sort of years and years of technical understanding, and compress that into seconds of speech? So I'm sympathetic to the problem there.
But the thing is everything you did only matters if we have this conversation properly.
So let me help you out there.
You mentioned in an interview that the NSA was passing around naked photos of people.
Yeah, this is something where it's, it's not actually seen as a big deal in the culture of NSA because you've seen naked pictures all of the time.
That terrifies people because when we ask people about that this is the response you get.
The government should not be able to look at dick pictures.
If the government was looking at a picture of Gordon's penis, I definitely feel it would be an invasion of my privacy.
Oh yeah, if the government was looking at pictures of my penis that would upset me.
They should never, ever, the US government have a picture of my dick.
If my husband sent me a picture of his penis, and the government could access it I, I would want that program to be shutdown I would want the dick pic program changed.
I would also want the dick pic program changed.
I think it would be terrific if the program could changed.
I would want it to be tweaked, I would want it to have have clear and transparent laws, that we knew about and that they communicate to us to understand what they were being used for, why they were being kept.
Do you think that program exists? I don't, I don't think that program exists at all.
No.
No.
No.
No.
If I had knowledge that the U.
S.
government had a picture of my dick, I would be very pissed off.
Well, the good news is there's no program named the dick pic program.
The bad news is there are still collecting everybody's information including your dick pics.
What's the odd run on that last guy having sent a dick pic recently You don't need to guess.
I'll show you.
I did.
I did take a picture of my dick and I sent it to a girl recently.
This is the most visible line in the sand for people.
Can they see my dick? So with that in mind, look inside that folder.
That is a picture of my dick.
So let's go through each NSA Program and explain to me its capabilities in regards to that photograph of my penis.
So 702 surveillance, can they see my dick? Yes, The FISA-amendment act of 2008 which Section 702 falls under allows the bulk collection.
Of internet communications that are one-end foreign.
Bulk collection, now we're talking about my dick.
You get it.
- It's not what I - You get it, alright.
I do.
Right, because it's yeah, because it's anyway.
So if you have your e-mail somewhere like G-mail, posted on servers overseas or transferred overseas or any time crosses outside the borders of the United States, your junk ends up in the database.
So it doesn't, it doesn't have to be sending your dick to a German.
No.
Even if you sent it to somebody within the United States, your wholly domestic communication between you and your wife can go from New York, to London and back.
And get caught up in the database.
Executive order 12-333? Dick or no dick? Yes.
EO 12-333 is what the NSA uses when the other authorities aren't aggressive enough or they not catching as much as they'd like.
For example: Because, How are they going to see my dick I'm only concerned about my penis? When you send your junk through Gmail for example, Yeah? That's stored or Google servers.
Google moves data from data center to data center invisibly to you without your knowledge.
Your data could be moved outside the borders of the United States Oh no! Temporarily.
When your junk was passed by Gmail, the NSA caught a copy of that.
Prism? Prism is how they pull your junk out of Google with Google involvement.
All of the different Prism partners People like yahoo!, Facebook, Google, The government deputizes them, to be sort of their little surveillance sheriff.
- They're dick-sheriff.
- Correct.
Upstream? Upstream is how they snatch your junk as it transits the internet.
Okay.
Mystic? If you're describing your junk on the phone, yes.
But do they have the content of that junk-call or just the duration of it? They have the content as well but only for a few countries.
If you are on vacation in the Bahamas, yes.
Finally.
And you need to remind yourself No, I'm just not sure what to do with this.
- It's a lot of - Just hold on to it.
It's a lot of responsibility.
Yeah.
It is a lot of responsibility.
That's the whole point.
- Should I? - No, you should absolutely not.
And it's unbelievable that you would do that.
Actually it's entirely believable 215 Meta-data? - No.
- Good.
- But - Come on, Ed.
They can probably tell who you're sharing your junk pictures with because they're seeing who you're texting with, who you're calling.
If you call a penis enlargement centre at 3 in the morning and that call lasted 90 minutes? They would have a record of your phone-number calling that phone-number.
Which is a penis enlargement center They would say they don't know it's penis enlargement center but of course they can look it up.
Edward.
If the American people understood this, they would be absolutely horrified.
I guess I never thought about putting it in the the context of your junk.
Would a good take-away from this be: Until such time as we've sorted all of this out don't take pictures of your dick.
Just don't do it anymore.
No, if we do that, if we.
.
Wait, hold on, were you saying 'no'? Yeah You should keep taking pictures of your dick? Yes, You shouldn't change your behavior because of a government agency somewhere is doing the wrong thing.
If we sacrifice our values because we're afraid, We don't care about those values very much That's a pretty inspiring answer to the question: "hey, why don't you just send me a picture of your dick?" "Because I love America, that's why.
" So there you have it, America.
All of us should now be equipped to have this vital debate because by June 1st it is imperative we have a rational, adult conversation about whether our safety is worth living in a country of barely regulated government sanction dick sheriffs.
And with my work here done, there was just time to take care of one more thing.
Finally, congratulations on Citizenfour winning the Oscar.
I know you couldn't be at the ceremony for obvious reasons, so - Wow - I thought we'd celebrate ourselves.
Cheers.
That's, that's really something, thank you.
You're welcome.
What's the over under on me getting back home safely.
Well, if you weren't on the list before, you are now.
Is that like, uhm.
.
Is that like a f is that like a joke? Or is that actually possible? No, it's, it's a real thing.
You're associated now.
Ok.
Just to be clear, NSA, I never met this guy.
So take me off your fucking list because I do not want to get stuck in Russia! I want to go home! I want to go home! I want to go home! I want to go home! Now, just for the record.
Just so you know.
We got in touch with the NSA, the national security council and the White House and we asked them to comment on the dick pic capabilities of each of the programs Edward Snowden just discussed Which, incidentally, were some very fun emails to write to government agencies.
They didn't wish to comment on the record.
And I can see why for every possible reason.
But that's it.
That's our show.
Thank you so much for watching.
Thank you for Edward Snowden.
We'll see you again next week.
Good night! 

