The Senate Judiciary Committee is on a break until around 1 p.m.
Attorney General William P. Barr told the Senate Judiciary Committee that he did not misrepresent the report by Robert S. Mueller III, despite Mr. Mueller’s complaint that the attorney general’s initial public letter describing the investigation’s findings did not capture its full context.

In a letter from the special counsel to the attorney general, released on Wednesday, Mr. Mueller wrote that Mr. Barr’s summary of his office’s work failed to capture “the context, nature and substance” of his report and had left the public confused about “critical aspects of the results.”

Mr. Barr said that President Trump did not obstruct justice by telling his White House counsel to have the special counsel removed from office.

Democrats pressed Mr. Barr on why he had not publicly acknowledged concerns about his original summary when asked about them and why he asserted that Mr. Trump had cooperated fully with the investigation when he tried to thwart it.

The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to allow staff lawyers to question Mr. Barr at a hearing scheduled for Thursday. Mr. Barr has said he will not appear under that format.

Mr. Barr told senators that he decided to release his initial letter characterizing Mr. Mueller’s bottom-line conclusions because of intense public interest, pushing back against criticism that he distorted the broader findings of the special counsel investigation.

“The body politic was in a high state of agitation,” Mr. Barr said, explaining why he decided to release the letter. Some analysts, he said, were suggesting that any delay in releasing Mr. Mueller’s report would indicate that the president faced legal jeopardy. “I didn’t feel that it was in the public interest to allow this to go on for several weeks,” Mr. Barr said.

The attorney general acknowledged that Mr. Mueller was not happy about the impression left by Mr. Barr’s original letter. After receiving a letter from the special counsel urging the release of the executive summaries, Mr. Barr said he called Mr. Mueller to discuss the matter.

“He said that this concern focused on his explanation of why he did not reach a conclusion on obstruction and he wanted more put out on that issue,” Mr. Barr said. But the attorney general added that Mr. Mueller was not complaining about the letter itself, only how it was being read. “He was very clear with me that he was not suggesting that we had misrepresented his report,” Mr. Barr said.
Mr. Barr said Mr. Mueller told him that “the press reporting had been inaccurate and that the press was reading too much into it.”
Mr. Mueller asked Mr. Barr twice to release more of his investigative findings in late March after Mr. Barr outlined the inquiry’s main conclusions in a letter to Congress, citing a gap between Mr. Barr’s interpretation and Mr. Mueller’s report, according to a letter released on Wednesday.
Mr. Mueller’s office first informed the Justice Department of its concerns on March 25, a day after Mr. Barr released his letter clearing Mr. Trump. At the time, Mr. Barr declined to release the special counsel’s findings themselves.
“We communicated that concern to the department on the morning of March 25,” Mr. Mueller said in a second letter to Mr. Barr two days later. “There is now public confusion about critical aspects of the results of our investigation.”

Mr. Mueller asked the Justice Department to release the summaries of his findings. Mr. Barr declined.
Mr. Barr took on one of the most sensational elements of the special counsel’s report, arguing that the president was not actually trying to eliminate the investigation against him by seeking to remove Mr. Mueller.

Donald F. McGahn II, then the White House counsel, told the special counsel’s team that the president called him twice in the summer of 2017 and told him to tell the Justice Department to remove Mr. Mueller on the grounds of supposed conflicts of interests. “Mueller has to go,” he quoted the president telling him. Mr. McGahn, who considered the conflicts cited by the president to be “silly” and “not real,” refused to go along.
Mr. Barr told senators that the president’s request did not constitute an illegal effort to impede the investigation. “There is a distinction between saying to someone, ‘Go fire him, go fire Mueller,’ and saying, ‘Have him removed based on conflict,’” Mr. Barr said.

Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the ranking Democrat, asked what the difference would be.

“If you remove someone for a conflict of interest there would presumably be another person” appointed as special counsel, Mr. Barr said.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, the ranking Democrat of the committee, questioning Mr. Barr.
Democrats pressed Mr. Barr on conflicts between his assertions and information that has come to light through Mr. Mueller’s report or the letters he sent the attorney general.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, challenged Mr. Barr on why he did not acknowledge the concerns expressed in Mr. Mueller’s letters at an earlier hearing. When Mr. Barr was asked at a House hearing in early April if he knew what was behind news reports that members of Mr. Mueller’s team were frustrated by his summary of their conclusions, the attorney general said, “I don’t know.”

Mr. Leahy suggested that was misleading. “Why did you say you were not aware of concerns when weeks before your testimony Mr. Mueller had expressed concerns to you?” Mr. Leahy asked.

“The question was relating to unidentified members who were expressing frustration over the accuracy” of the letter, Mr. Barr said. “I talked directly with Bob Mueller, not members of his team” and “Mueller had never told me that the expression of the findings was inaccurate.”
Other Democrats have been more pointed. Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland and Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Barr misled Congress and should resign.
Mr. Leahy also took on Mr. Barr over his assertions that Mr. Trump had “cooperated fully” with the investigation, asking him about several of the president’s actions to thwart the inquiry, including his refusal to be personally interviewed by prosecutors.

Mr. Leahy cited an instance when Mr. Trump directed Corey Lewandowski, his former campaign manager, to tell Jeff Sessions, who was then the attorney general and had recused himself from the investigation, to unrecuse himself and impose limits on the special counsel that would effectively take its focus off the president.

“Is that fully cooperating?” Mr. Leahy asked.

“Well,” Mr. Barr said, pausing, “I don’t see any conflict between that and fully cooperating with the investigation.”

House Judiciary Committee Votes to Allow Lawyers to Question Barr
While attention was trained on the Senate, the House moved forward with its own confrontations. The Democratic-led Judiciary Committee voted to allow staff lawyers from both parties to question Mr. Barr during testimony scheduled for Thursday. Mr. Barr and committee Republicans have objected to that arrangement, and the attorney general has threatened not to show up for questioning.

With Democrats not backing down, it remains to be seen if he will.

"Attorney General Barr publicly committed to being transparent regarding the special counsel’s investigation," the committee's chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, said. "He should welcome the opportunity to speak candidly and at length before the House Judiciary Committee and the American people."

At the same time, House 
Democrats are waiting to see if the Justice Department
 meets a Wednesday deadline set by the Judiciary Committee to
 turn over a copy of the Mueller report without redactions and all the evidence collected by Mr. Mueller. They already issued a subpoena for the material, and could escalate a conflict with the Justice Department if it is not handed over.
LONDON — A British court sentenced Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, to 50 weeks in prison on Wednesday for jumping bail when he took refuge in Ecuador’s Embassy in London seven years ago.

His complex legal travails are far from over: The United States is seeking Mr. Assange’s extradition for prosecution there, and an initial hearing on that request is expected on Thursday. Officials in Sweden have left open the possibility that he could face criminal charges in that country, as well.

Mr. Assange faces a charge of conspiracy to hack into a Pentagon computer network; a federal indictment accuses him of helping an Army private to illegally download classified information in 2010, much of it about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which WikiLeaks then made public. He has denied the charge.

Mr. Assange, 47, was arrested on April 11 after the Ecuadorean government withdrew its protection of him and allowed the police to take him out of the embassy in London, where he had lived since 2012. The same day, he appeared in court and was convicted on the charge of skipping bail.



Mr. Assange, who is being held in Belmarsh Prison in East London, argued that he should not be jailed for the offense, because he was effectively imprisoned in the embassy. On Wednesday, in Southwark Crown Court in London, Judge Deborah Taylor rejected that claim.

“It’s difficult to envisage a more serious example of this offense,” she told Mr. Assange, British news organizations reported. “By hiding in the embassy you deliberately put yourself out of reach, while remaining in the U.K.”

Before he was sentenced, the court heard an apology letter by Mr. Assange, in which he said that he was “struggling with difficult circumstances.”

“I did what I thought at the time was the best or perhaps the only thing that I could have done,” he said, according to British news reports. “I regret the course that that has taken.”



His legal odyssey began in 2010, when prosecutors in Sweden sought to question him about alleged sexual assaults there, which he denies. Eventually, he had to post bail to remain free while fighting extradition to Sweden, which he insisted would then send him to the United States.

Protesters in London on Wednesday before Mr. Assange was sentenced.

Protesters in London on Wednesday before Mr. Assange was sentenced.CreditMatt Dunham/Associated Press
After exhausting his appeals in the British courts, rather than submit to extradition, Mr. Assange took refuge in Ecuador’s embassy, violating the terms of his bail. Ecuador granted him asylum and, eventually, citizenship.

He continued his work from the embassy, and in 2016, WikiLeaks released thousands of emails hacked from the Democratic National Committee and the personal account of John D. Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s campaign, intending to harm her candidacy. The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, concluded that the emails were stolen by Russian intelligence agents, which Mr. Assange denies.



The 2010 release of Pentagon records was made possible by Chelsea Manning, then known as Bradley Manning, the Army private who would later serve around seven years in prison for taking them. The indictment against Mr. Assange says he did not merely publish the material provided by Ms. Manning, but helped her in the hacking, which he disputes.

Mr. Assange insists that the government is seeking retribution for his exposure of misconduct and deception by American troops and officials.

Swedish prosecutors eventually dropped the case against Mr. Assange, calling it pointless to pursue it, but said they could revive it if he became available. Nevertheless the bail-jumping charge, and the threat of extradition to the United States, still hung over him.

Last month, Ecuador revoked his asylum and citizenship, citing a list of grievances that had made him an unwanted house guest, ranging from recent WikiLeaks releases to alleged ill manners, threats, hacking aimed at Ecuador, and abuse of embassy staff members and facilities.




Ecuador stopped sheltering Mr. Assange after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols,” President Lenin Moreno said in a statement on Twitter.

But Mr. Assange didn’t go easily: He resisted arrest and had to be restrained by British police officers, who struggled to handcuff him.

“This is unlawful, I’m not leaving,” he told them, according to the account given at the Westminster Magistrates Court, where Mr. Assange appeared later that day. In the end, he had to be dragged out of the embassy.

Mr. Assange, a man accustomed to celebrity and internet culture, has long fascinated and divided popular opinion: To supporters, he is a martyr for the cause of free speech, but others see him as a publicity-seeking criminal with strong ties to the Kremlin.

President Trump wants  to designate the Muslim Brotherhood, an international Islamist movement, as a terrorist organization. The designation would impose sanctions on the group and those who do business with it.

Officials in the Pentagon and State Department have raised objections to the plan, saying that the Muslim Brotherhood does not meet the legal definition of a terrorist group and that its designation could have unintended consequences in allied countries where the Brotherhood fields prominent political parties.

The Muslim Brotherhood has frequently denounced terrorism and violence.

Here’s a brief guide.

What is the Muslim Brotherhood?
The Muslim Brotherhood is a missionary movement founded in Egypt in 1928 by Hassan al-Banna, a schoolteacher working in the town of Ismailia, near the Suez Canal. He argued that an Islamic religious revival would enable the Muslim world to catch up to the West and shake off colonial rule.



But he was sweeping and contradictory about the mission of the group, and largely avoided spelling out what an Islamic government might look like.

Hassan al-Banna, an Egyptian schoolteacher, founded the Muslim Brotherhood in 1928.

His teachings spread far beyond Egypt, and today widely varying Islamist political movements — including missionary, charitable and advocacy organizations as well as political parties in many countries — trace their roots to the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood. Some of these groups use the name Muslim Brotherhood and others do not.

Political parties explicitly linked to or descended from the Muslim Brotherhood are recognized in many countries allied with the United States, including Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Bahrain, Morocco, Turkey and Tunisia.

Is the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood terrorist?
No. Even experts critical of the Brotherhood agree that the organization does not meet the criteria for a terrorist group.


Under the British-backed monarchy in the 1940s, the Egyptian Brotherhood was one of several factions to create paramilitary wings. In 1948, a 23-year-old veterinary student who belonged to the group assassinated the prime minister. Two weeks later, another member of the outfit was arrested for attempting to bomb a courthouse.

Mr. al-Banna denounced the perpetrators and their actions. “They are neither Brothers nor are they Muslims,” he said.

In the 1960s, a small circle of Muslim Brothers were arrested for plotting to reestablish an armed wing. That is when the Brotherhood formally codified its opposition to violence in a tract titled, “Preachers, Not Judges.”

Historians say there has been no evidence since then that the Egyptian Brotherhood, as an organization, has engaged in violence.



The government of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has classified the Brotherhood as a terrorist organization and routinely accuses it of being behind terrorist attacks. The Brotherhood has consistently denied any involvement.

Since the military takeover of Egypt’s government in 2013, some members of the Brotherhood have broken off to form organizations that carry out acts of violence against the military-backed government.

Two of those groups, Hasm and Liwa al-Thawra, have been designated as terrorist organizations by the United States government.

A rally in Gaza City last year in support of Hamas, an Islamist group descended from the Muslim Brotherhood.
A rally in Gaza City last year in support of Hamas, an Islamist group descended from the Muslim Brotherhood.CreditMohammed Saber/EPA, via Shutterstock



Have branches of the Muslim Brotherhood outside of Egypt engaged in terrorism?
Yes. The militant Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas, for one, is an offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood. Hamas has carried out kidnappings, suicide bombings and rocket attacks on civilian targets, which the Muslim Brotherhood considers legitimate resistance to Israeli occupation. The United States has designated Hamas a terrorist organization.

Beyond that, the many Brotherhood affiliates around the world operate independently and identify only loosely with the Egyptian original, so it is difficult to speak categorically.

Is the Muslim Brotherhood related to groups like Al Qaeda?
Many people who are frustrated with the Muslim Brotherhood’s nonviolence have quit the group for more militant organizations such as Al Qaeda.

Ayman al-Zawahiri, the Egyptian who helped found and now leads Al Qaeda, is a former Brotherhood member. He wrote a book-length jeremiad called “The Bitter Harvest” denouncing the Brotherhood’s nonviolence, and the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood has consistently and repeatedly denounced Al Qaeda.




A protest in support of Mr. Morsi in Cairo in 2013.


A protest in support of Mr. Morsi in Cairo in 2013.

Does the Muslim Brotherhood support democracy?
Calls for democratic elections are now a hallmark of Muslim Brotherhood movements across the Arab world, putting them at odds with the authoritarian governments of the region as well as with more militant Islamists.

The Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt began winning seats in the almost powerless Parliament in the 1980s, under President Hosni Mubarak. After his ouster in 2011, the Muslim Brotherhood won a plurality in Egypt’s first free parliamentary election and a senior figure in the group, Mohamed Morsi, won Egypt’s first free presidential election. But the military dissolved Parliament in 2012 and ousted Mr. Morsi in 2013.

After the Arab Spring uprising in Tunisia, a Brotherhood-style political party won the first free parliamentary elections there, then relinquished power peacefully after losing the next vote. The party, Ennahda, continues to play a major role in the legislature.




King Salman of Saudi Arabia, right, with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt in Saudi Arabia last year. Both of their governments consider the Muslim Brotherhood terrorist.



King Salman of Saudi Arabia, right, with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt in Saudi Arabia last year. Both of their governments consider the Muslim Brotherhood terrorist.


What is the argument for labeling the Muslim Brotherhood terrorist?
The main international advocates for the designation are Mr. el-Sisi of Egypt and his authoritarian allies in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Alarmed that Muslim Brotherhood parties might rise to power through elections, all three governments have cracked down on the Islamists and pressed their allies to do the same.

They argue that the Brotherhood’s Islamic ideology makes it a threat to the idea of the nation-state and thus a threat to the region’s stability. They also argue that the Brotherhood and Al Qaeda are essentially part of the same movement since both envision societies grounded in Islam.

The Trump White House had considered the designation during the first weeks of its administration in 2017 but dropped the idea. At a White House meeting three weeks ago, Mr. el-Sisi urged Mr. Trump to make the designation and Mr. Trump agreed that it made sense.


Britain, under pressure from its Persian Gulf allies, also investigated designating the Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist group but decided the group did not qualify.

Can President Trump simply declare the Muslim Brotherhood terrorist?
No. The administration must show that the Muslim Brotherhood engages in terrorist activity that threatens the United States or its interests. After counterterrorism agencies prepare written evidence, the secretary of state must consult with the attorney general and the treasury secretary before making a designation. Congress would have seven days to block it, and then the Muslim Brotherhood would have 30 days to appeal to a federal court in Washington.

But even experts who consider the Muslim Brotherhood sinister say that they have never seen enough evidence to convince a court that it was a terrorist group. The Saudis, Emiratis and Egyptians “do not understand the ins and outs of the U.S. system,” said Jonathan Schanzer of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, which has often criticized the Brotherhood.

Amr Darrag, a former official of the Morsi government who is now in exile in Istanbul, predicted that any court case would end in defeat for Mr. Trump.

“The designation may be bad for the Middle East, but it would be a big win for the Muslim Brotherhood,” he said, “a clear statement from a court that the Brotherhood is not a terrorist group.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump began his trade war with China out of concern that Beijing was using unfair economic practices to prevent the United States from dominating next-generation technologies like autonomous vehicles, advanced telecommunications and artificial intelligence.

But as the two countries move closer to a trade deal, it seems increasingly unlikely that China will give ground in a crucial area that could determine which country wins the technology race. Despite months of pressure from the White House, Chinese negotiators have so far refused to relax tight regulations that block multinational companies from moving data they gather on their Chinese customers’ purchases, habits and whereabouts out of the country. Such data is crucial as industries build next-generation technologies.

With another round of trade talks underway this week, the United States and China appear headed toward an agreement that could end the monthslong trade war and lift tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars of products. China is offering to strengthen its laws surrounding intellectual property, direct large purchases of American goods and reduce barriers for foreign companies in industries like finance and agriculture. It has also proposed giving foreign cloud computing companies like Amazon, Microsoft and Apple greater ability to operate independently in China, people familiar with the negotiations say.

A trade deal between the two nations will calm tensions and be seen as a victory for Mr. Trump, but some American technology companies fear the administration is giving up a valuable opportunity to press China on data-related issues and will cede too much economic power to Beijing.




China has already overseen a splintering of the world’s internet, a move that has helped Chinese companies catch up to American firms. Over the past two decades, China built and shored up the Great Firewall, which blocks websites including YouTube, Facebook, Google and The New York Times from reaching more than 700 million Chinese internet users. Behind those barriers, Chinese internet companies like Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent have thrived, developing cutting-edge services that have in many respects surpassed those of their Western competitors.

The American tech industry is concerned that this same fracturing is being repeated with data, setting up more permanent divisions in how technology will be used around the world. As companies collect and analyze ever more data on customers, China has insisted that information be stored within its borders, on Chinese-made servers and routers, and not be transferred out of the country.

Business executives say relaxing China’s restrictions on data is critical to ability of the United States to build globally competitive firms in areas like autonomous vehicles and artificial intelligence, which are expected to power jobs and economic growth.

The Chinese internet company Alibaba has thrived behind the Chinese Firewall, which blocks websites including YouTube, Facebook and Google. American tech companies are worried that a similar situation will play out as China restricts the flow of data.

The Chinese internet company Alibaba has thrived behind the Chinese Firewall, which blocks websites including YouTube, Facebook and Google. American tech companies are worried that a similar situation will play out as China restricts the flow of data.CreditCrab Hu/EPA, via Shutterstock
China describes its data restrictions as an issue of national security, but technology firms, financial advisers, energy companies and others argue that the rules are intended to help Beijing dominate data-intensive industries. American firms say the restrictions increase their costs, force them to share sensitive technology with Chinese partners, make them more susceptible to cybertheft and leave them beholden to Chinese monitoring and censorship.




Trade in data is just one of several technology issues the United States is discussing with China. Trump officials are also trying to end Beijing’s pattern of forcing American companies that operate in the country to transfer valuable technology to Chinese partners, and curb cybertheft. It remains unclear how these issues will be resolved, but a final deal is expected to include changes that allow American companies in the financial and automotive industries to operate independently, rather than with a Chinese partner.

“There’s no question to me that the Chinese are setting up a separate technology system, and they are a superpower in the field,” said Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, a consulting group. “There are some areas where they are more advanced than we are.”

The enormous volume of email, software, audio and video content that crosses international borders each day facilitates trade in goods and services in a range of industries, including entertainment, finance, law, manufacturing and retail.




It is also allowing companies to amass troves of information on customer behavior, through monitoring purchases on Amazon, Netflix binges, GPS routing, fitness tracking and other digital services. That data, in turn, gives companies information about users’ shopping habits, viewing history, driving patterns and health that is feeding the development of industries like cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning and autonomous vehicles.

Companies are also gathering data about their own operations from sensors that monitor production lines in factories and alert retailers when certain products are out of stock.

This data is helping companies make and sell products in ways that are far more important to the American economy than is typically recognized, said Christine McDaniel, a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center. A 2016 study by the McKinsey Global Institute found that digital flows now exert a larger impact on economic growth than trade in goods.

Despite its economic importance, there are few global rules governing trade in data. Trade in goods is governed by the World Trade Organization and an extensive network of bilateral and multilateral trade deals, but no similar regulatory structure exists for data flows.




The United States is trying to block Huawei, a Chinese telecom equipment company, from building parts of America’s 5G network.


The United States is trying to block Huawei, a Chinese telecom equipment company, from building parts of America’s 5G network.CreditKin Cheung/Associated Press
That is beginning to change. The United States has enshrined the tech industry’s position in the United States-Mexico-Canada agreement, which provides for open access to government data, protections for company source codes and algorithms and a prohibition on customs duties on data, among other provisions.

The agreement will serve as a jumping-off point for American trade talks with Japan, as well as negotiations on e-commerce rules with more than 70 countries at the W.T.O. Trade agreements between Europe and Japan, and between Japan and a collection of 10 other countries in the Asia-Pacific region, also have as a default the free flow of information, with some exceptions.

In other parts of the world, the tide is moving in the opposite direction, said Aaron Cooper, vice president of global policy at the Software Alliance, a trade group. In countries like India, Indonesia, Russia and Vietnam, governments are introducing regulations to ostensibly protect their citizens’ privacy and build domestic internet industries that will stymie the ability of American companies to provide services in those countries.




China and the United States, home to the world’s largest tech companies, are the global “controllers of data,” said Susan Aaronson, a professor of international affairs at George Washington University. “There are private firms in the United States, and private firms in China that work very closely with the Chinese government.”

It remains to be seen which country takes the lead and how rules around their data evolve. For now, both are throwing up roadblocks to thwart each other. For instance, Chinese rules prevent foreign companies from mapping the country, which could limit the ability of American companies to offer automated driving technology. American lawmakers and policymakers have tried to prevent China from monopolizing data-related infrastructure by barring Huawei and other Chinese telecom equipment firms from building any part of America’s next-generation telecom network.

In the trade talks, China has offered some concessions on rules governing the cloud computing industry, where foreign companies are required to operate in tandem with a Chinese partner. In a meeting in March, China’s premier, Li Keqiang, floated the idea of giving foreign cloud computing companies the ability to operate independently in a free-trade zone, as well as two of the roughly eight licenses that companies need to operate in China, people familiar with the negotiations say. In return, the Trump administration has pressed China to provide all the required licenses, and eliminate all ownership requirements without geographic restrictions.

The Chinese have also been willing to discuss setting a fairly high bar for which companies are deemed so vital to China’s information infrastructure that they have to keep vast amounts of data within China using government-approved telecommunications equipment. The Chinese government has discussed applying its most stringent rules to enterprises with a market share of at least 10 percent, said one person familiar with the discussions.

American negotiators have called on China for more openness on its data rules, but it is not one of the Trump administration’s top priorities, and China has given little ground, people familiar with the negotiations say. Even if China opens up to foreign cloud computing, continued restrictions on the flow of data from China will make these ventures less profitable. And companies say Chinese laws on critical data could be used to curtail their operations at any time.
This country is rigged in favor of making the very wealthy even wealthier. That’s what Democrats keep saying on the 2020 campaign trail. And it’s what some of the people who have reaped the rewards of this rigged system think too. Abigail Disney, granddaughter of Roy Disney, is one recent high-profile example. On Tuesday, she called out the “naked indecency” of the $65 million in compensation that goes to Disney’s chief executive, Bob Iger. That figure, she noted, is “1,424 times the median pay of a Disney worker.”

A growing number of privileged young people, a generation younger than Ms. Disney, are also questioning the morality of their advantages and the social arrangements that produce them. Many are involved with Resource Generation, an organization for people under 35 who are in the top 10 percent through their own or their family’s income and wealth.

These “class traitors” reject the “lie of meritocracy,” as Yahya Alazrak, a staff member of the organization, called it, adding that they are “fundamentally challenging this very core belief that our culture in the United States is built on, that people deserve all of the money that they have,” whether it comes from their work or that of their family members. Instead, these beneficiaries of the system want to change it.

In the past few months, I have talked in depth with 20 young people engaged in this work. They tend to come from families whose parents or ancestors accumulated wealth, and they have inherited or stand to inherit millions. Some have tech or other skills that bring them salaries they feel are disproportionately high. Most are white; some are children of South and East Asian immigrants. They have all studied at prestigious universities. Some are in college or graduate school, while those with jobs work in education, tech, the arts or organizing.




Rather than repeat family myths about the individual effort and smarts of their forebears, those from wealthy backgrounds tell “money stories” that highlight the more complicated origins of their families’ assets. If their fortunes came from the direct dispossession of indigenous peoples, enslavement of African-Americans, production of fossil fuels or obvious exploitation of workers, they often express especially acute guilt. As a woman in her early 20s told me of the wealth generated by her family’s global business: “It’s not just that I get money without working. It’s that other people work to make me money and don’t get nearly as much themselves. I find it to be morally repugnant.”

Even those I have talked with whose family wealth was accumulated through less transparently exploitative means, such as tech or finance, or who have high-paying jobs themselves, question what they really deserve. They see that their access to such jobs, through elite schools and social networks, comes from their class (and usually race) advantages.

They also know that many others work just as hard but reap fewer rewards. One 27-year-old white woman, who stands to inherit several million dollars, told me: “My dad has always been a C.E.O., and it was clear to me that he spent a lot of time at work, but it has never been clear to me that he worked a lot harder than a domestic worker, for example. I will never believe that.” She and others challenge the description of wealth garnered through work as “earned.” In an effort to break the link between money and moral value, they refer to rich people as “high net wealth” rather than “high net worth.”

Immigrants who “make it” are often seen to exemplify the American dream of upward mobility. The children of immigrants I spoke with, though, don’t want their families’ “success stories” to legitimate an unfair system. Andrea Pien, 32, is a Resource Generation member and a daughter of Taiwanese immigrants who accumulated significant wealth in the United States. She spoke of refusing to be “the token that then affirms the capitalist meritocracy myth, the idea that ‘Oh, if Andrea’s family made it, we don’t need affirmative action, or we don’t need reparations.’”




In general, these young people don’t believe they are entitled to so much when others have so little. Many describe feeling guilt or shame about their privilege, which often leads them to hide it. One college student, a woman of color, told me that she worried what other campus activists might think of her. “What a fraud, right?” she said. “To be in those spaces and be acting like these are my struggles, when they’re not.” A white woman who lives on her inheritance of more than $15 million spoke of “deflecting” questions about her occupation, so that others would not know she did not do work for pay.


These progressive children of privilege told me they study the history of racial capitalism in the United States and discuss the ways traditional philanthropy tends to keep powerful people at the top. They also spend a fair amount of time talking about their money. Should they give it all away? Should they get a job, even if they don’t need the income? How much is it ethical to spend on themselves or others? How does money shape friendships and relationships? Resource Generation and its members facilitate these conversations, including one local chapter’s “feelings caucus.”

If you’re thinking, “Cry me a river,” you’re not alone. I have faced skepticism from other sociologists when discussing this research. One colleague asserted that rich young people struggling with their privilege do not have a “legitimate problem.” Others ask: How much do they really give, and what do they really give up? Aren’t these simply self-absorbed millennials taking another opportunity to talk endlessly about themselves?




I understand this view. There is certainly a risk — of which many of them are aware — that all this conversation will just devolve into navel-gazing, an expression of privilege rather than a challenge to it. It is hard for individual action to make a dent in an ironclad social structure. And it is impossible, as they know, to shed the class privilege rooted in education and family socialization, even if they give away every penny.

But like Abigail Disney, these young people are challenging fundamental cultural understandings of who deserves what. And they are breaking the social taboo against talking about money — a taboo that allows radical inequality to fade into the background. This work is critical at a moment when the top 1 percent of families in the United States owns 40 percent of the country’s wealth, and Jeff Bezos takes home more money per minute than the median American worker makes in a year.

As Holly Fetter, a Resource Generation member and Harvard Business School student, told me, “It’s essential that those of us who have access to wealth and want to use it to support progressive social movements speak up, to challenge the narrative that the 1 percent are only interested in accumulation, and invite others to join us.”

Wealthy people are more likely to convince other wealthy people that the system is unfair. And they are the only ones who can describe intimately the ways that wealth may be emotionally corrosive, producing fear, shame and isolation.




Class privilege is like white privilege, in that its beneficiaries receive advantages that are, in fact, unearned. So for them to conclude that their own wealth is undeserved, and therefore immoral, constitutes a powerful critique of the idea of meritocracy.

The fact that the system is immoral, of course, does not make individuals immoral. One person I spoke with, a white 30-year-old who inherited money, said: “It’s not that we’re bad people. It’s just, nobody needs that much money.” But judgments of systems are often taken as judgments of individuals, which leads white people to deny racism and rich people to deny class privilege.

So even the less-public work of talking through emotions, needs and relationships, which can seem self-indulgent, is meaningful. As Ms. Pien put it, “Our feelings are related to the bigger structure.”

One huge cultural support of that structure is secrecy around money, which even rich people don’t talk about.




Wealthy parents fear that if they tell their kids how much they will inherit, the kids won’t develop a strong work ethic. Yahya Alazrak, of Resource Generation, has heard people say, “My dad won’t tell me how much money we have because he’s worried that I’ll become lazy.” One man in his early 30s recounted that his parents had always told him they would pay for his education, but not support him afterward until they revealed that he had a trust worth over $10 million. Parents also have a “scarcity mentality,” Resource Generation members said, which leads them to “hoard” assets to protect against calamity.

Secrecy also often goes hand in hand with limited financial literacy. Women, especially, may not learn about money management growing up, thanks to gendered ideas about financial planning and male control of family assets. Some people I met who will inherit significant amounts of money didn’t know the difference between a stock and a bond.

When wealthy parents do talk about money, they tend to put forth conventional ideas about merit: They or their ancestors worked hard for what they have, scrimped and saved to keep and increase it, and gave some of it away. When their children reject these metrics, parents’ sense of being “good people” is challenged.

When one woman told her immigrant parents she wanted to give their millions away, it was like “a slap in the face” for them, she said, because they felt they had “sacrificed a lot for this money.”




Parents — and the financial professionals who manage family wealth — also tend to follow conventional wisdom about money: Never give away principal. Charitable donations should be offset by tax breaks. And the goal of investing is always to make as much money as possible. As one 33-year-old inheritor said, “No financial adviser ever says, ‘I made less money for the client, but I got them to build affordable housing.’”

Talking about how it feels to be rich can help build affordable housing, though. Once the feeling of being a “bad person” is replaced by “good person in a bad structure,” these young people move into redistributive action. Many talked about asserting control over their money, pursuing socially responsible investments (sometimes for much lower returns) and increasing their own or their families’ giving, especially to social-justice organizations. And eventually — like the people I have quoted by name here — they take a public stand.

Finally, they imagine an alternative future, based on a different idea of what people deserve. Ms. Pien, for example, wants to be “invested in collective good, so we can all have the basics that we need and a little more.” In her vision, this “actually makes everyone more secure and fulfilled and joyful, rather than us hiding behind our mountains of money.”
He has indicated that he would fight extradition, and the process promises to be a long one, further extending his saga.
Ravi Ragbir became an immigrant rights activist from his own experience. After coming to the United States from Trinidad and Tobago and becoming a legal resident, he was convicted of wire fraud in 2000 and, after completing his prison sentence, was ordered deported. Since then, he had been allowed to remain in the country only at the discretion of immigration officials. Last year, it seems, their patience ran out.

Mr. Ragbir, during a routine check-in with Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in Lower Manhattan, was told that he was being detained and would be deported. Under the Trump administration, this experience is alarmingly common, even for those like Mr. Ragbir with strong family ties in the United States and with an American spouse. One thing stood out in this case: Mr. Ragbir was the executive director of the New Sanctuary Coalition — a group dedicated to assisting immigrants — and he was one of a number of immigration activists ordered detained or deported within a matter of weeks.

On Thursday, a federal appeals court ruled that in seeking to deport Mr. Ragbir, ICE may have exceeded its authority and violated his constitutional rights as a critic of the government’s immigration policies.

The court ruled that Mr. Ragbir had made a “plausible” case that the “public expression of his criticism, and its prominence, played a significant role in the recent attempts to remove him” — a type of retaliation forbidden by the First Amendment.




“To allow this retaliatory conduct to proceed would broadly chill protected speech, among not only activists subject to final orders of deportation but also those citizens and other residents who would fear retaliation against others,” Judge Christopher Droney of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit wrote in a divided panel opinion.

Mr. Ragbir is not alone in his predicament. His lawyers have presented evidence of what they say is a pattern of retaliatory conduct against immigrants’ rights advocates and organizations exercising their “fundamental First Amendment rights to criticize immigration policy and immigration enforcement.”

Among those cases is that of Jean Montrevil, a founder of the New Sanctuary Coalition, and of Eliseo Jurado, the husband of Ingrid Latorre, a Peruvian immigrant who made headlines for seeking sanctuary from deportation in a Colorado church. Both Mr. Montrevil and Mr. Jurado were detained the same month as Mr. Ragbir.

And about a month earlier, Maru Mora-Villalpando, an outspoken ICE critic, was put in deportation proceedings for no apparent reason other than her organizing “resistance workshops” in Washington State.



The judge who ordered Mr. Ragbir’s release last year said that Mr. Ragbir “has lived the life of a redeemed man.” Officials granted him reprieve after reprieve from deportation from 2006 to 2018, allowing him to remain and work in the United States. As Judge Droney recognized, Mr. Ragbir’s “continued presence until deported has not violated any U.S. law.”

Mr. Ragbir’s lawyers hope that Thursday’s ruling will lead to a broader order enjoining the government from targeting activists. The Trump administration, for its part, fears that Mr. Ragbir’s case will set a precedent that will lead to a flurry of litigation, as federal law makes it extremely difficult to challenge an order of deportation in court.

But as the appeals court acknowledged, “the taint of unconstitutional conduct” compels a different result. Mr. Ragbir must be allowed to remain in the country as he continues to press his case.