While reading the assertions of long dead eugenicists that mixed children will be the end of society, it has unearthed a conversation about my own identity. I am Colombian and Chinese-Trinidadian, but depending on where I go, I am one or the other, according to my family, never both. While I’m completely confident that my Colombian family ignoring half of my heritage and vice versa has nothing to do with blood purity rhetoric and is more concerned with ensuring that I grew up with a semblance of pride in my heritage, it had honestly never struck me as strange until recently, and I have begun to wonder: why was it thought that by acknowledging another nationality, it would weaken my cultural ties. It isn’t the case where I claim one culture over the other because they both affected my upbringing and sense of self. While listening to Loving V. Virginia, I grappled with the question: how come a mixed child is destined to be a martyr doomed to live a miserable life, when I don’t view my upbringing as anything but enriched. I exclusively spoke Spanglish until the age of five and would sometimes mix up the colors of the different flags I was taught, but in no one’s eyes, least of all my own, was being an amalgamation of two entirely different cultures a hindrance at any stage of my life. Furthermore, I am certain that if Walter Plecker, the author of the Racial Integrity Act, saw me, he by no means would consider me a danger to society, unless he got a look at my birth certificate as well, so it makes absolutely no sense that an entire law was created off the basis of race, if mixed race, as Walter Plecker sees it, is that easily overlooked.
Summary of the Argument
	The New Virginia Law To Preserve Racial Integrity was written under the influence of the fear of the White population of losing their position as the inferior race. The entire law is based on the concept of race, which is a subjective concept. Race is treated as a fixed scientific fact, rather than a fluid notion based on personal and societal views. Furthermore, a racial hierarchy is established through the association of the different races as superior or inferior, with the White race deemed the superior race. It is also evident that it was not the element of marriage which was illegal in Virginia, but the race factor. Thus, simply being a member of the Black race was the real crime, not the miscegenation. Lastly, the negative connotation surrounding mixed children is apparent in this law and the Loving v Virginia case. The children are viewed as the product of unhealthy households and dangers to the social hierarchy. 
Argument
The defense for the anti-miscegenation statute in the Supreme Court Case Loving v. Virginia was a fear-fueled attempt to ensure the racial hierarchy remains ingrained within a Constitutional framework, as well as society, which Garcia and Sharif have noted exists in “Black Lives Matter: A Commentary on Racism and Public Health” in 2018 society. 
Race is a Social Construct
	Race is subjective, which is why Walter Plecker, the author of the Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity, needed to define the races in his law, and exists for the sake of allowing one race to itself over another. The authors of “Black Lives Matter: A Commentary on Racism and Public Health”, Garcia and Sharif, assert that “race is a social construction with no biological basis”, meaning that there exist no inherent differences in races as they are viewed by society.  This view is supported by Walter Plecker’s “The New Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity” which defines the white race as “one with no trace of the blood of another race” with the exception of “a person with one-sixteenth of the American Indian.”  However, it simply does not make sense for such specific definitions to be necessary if race were an inherent concept that could not be challenged. Furthermore, Walter Plecker establishes an “either or” condition for being classified as a member of the White race in Virginia- one can be either purely white, or partially American-Indian. This ambiguity does not reconcile itself with the factual, scientific basis on race, for it to be enough to base a law off of. In fact, R.D. McIlwaine, the attorney defending the Virginia law, asserted that the Virginia population is composed of only the White and Black races, which is “supported by the prevailing climate of scientific opinion.”  However, McIlwaine does not provide evidence, nor is there any common sense or knowledge backing his claim. Thus, it is evident that the Virginia Law is based on the subjective nature of race. 
Furthermore, racialization, which is understood to be “the process by which meaning and value are ascribed to socially determined racial categories, and each racial category occupies a different position in the social hierarchy” is evident in Plecker’s thoughts and his law . In an earlier speech published in the American Journal of Public Health, Walter Plecker discusses great civilizations throughout history and attributes their ruin to the amalgamation of superior and inferior races.  It can, thus, be concluded that Plecker feared the increasing mixed race population, for it may serve as a signal for America’s doom. In these words, Plecker, indirectly, assigned the White race as superior and Colored as inferior, especially in the context of the entire speech where Plecker offers solutions to “postpone the evil day when [America] is no longer a white man’s country.”  Ergo, it can be assumed that in the Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity used arbitrary race definitions in order to make it easier to ban miscegenation, and ensure the superiority of the White race, so that America can continue to function as it had before. 
Racial Hierarchy 
	The Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity included a statute which breaks down and classifies the races in Virginia; this statute does nothing more but make it easier for the state to discriminate against non-whites, for fear of the White population no longer being socially dominant. This statute made it so that those residing in Virginia can be either White, Black, or “Mixed”, and it sets up a race index so the government is easily able to determine the race of a person.  Drawing from the views of early eugenicists, like the crafter of this law, Plecker, that the White race is singularly the superior race, it is not illogical to view this classification system as an attempt to build a hierarchy of the races, a hierarchy which, according to Philip J. Hirschkop, an ACLU attorney for the Lovings, “[reflects] back to the Nazi Germany and to the present South African situation.”  The index presented by the New Virginia Law To Preserve Racial Integrity shares similarities with Nazi Germany and Apartheid South Africa, both of which had systems in place to categorize its people on the basis of race, with disastrous consequences for the race(s) seen as inferior.  While this comparison is startling, it draws attention to the potentially insidious purpose of the index: to create a hierarchy based on the classifications, so that there is a systematic means for ensuring that the Black race remains inferior. 
	However, the question remains: why is this hierarchy necessary? Garcia and Sharrif, 2018 public health officials, establish that “White lives are inherently valued over Black lives”, so it would make sense that in the New Virginia Law To Preserve Racial Integrity, Virginia made it so that the assertion of the White race over the Black was encoded in law, rather than relying on inherent social views.  It is clear that this law is the effect of the fear felt by the White race of the gradual equalization of power between the races. This is why the racial index was created. This is why interracial marriage was banned. Hirschkop questioned, “What is the danger to state of Virginia of interracial marriage?”  Hirschkop notes that there is no apparent danger to the people of Virginia stemming from mixed marriage, which would justify limiting the right to marry. The danger is the possibility of the White race no longer being the dominant race. The New Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity statutes creating the race index and banning miscegenation were created for the purpose of easing the White population’s fear of losing their top position on the racial hierarchy. 
Race is the Crime 
The New Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity classifies “White” as being purely Caucasian and punish those who are not to ensure the dominance of the White population. William Marutani, who filed the amicus curiae for Loving v. Virginia, asserts that Richard Loving was not capable of proving that he was purely Caucasian, as is called for in the New Virginia Law to Preserve Racial Integrity, however, he and Mildred Loving were still found guilty for violating the law. Thus, “By Virginia Clause, it was their race which made it an offense.”  Essentially, it is evident that is was Mildred Loving’s Black race, rather than the supposed miscegenation which led to the Lovings’ incarceration. There is evidence of the same condition present in 2018- Garcia and Sharif comment on the “aggressive enforcement of low-level drug crimes and mandatory harsh sentencing laws that disproportionately affect Blacks.”  This systematically ensures that the Black population is more affected by law enforcements. Even in 1914, amidst a health crisis in the South, social Darwinists expressed views on educating the Black population on physical and moral hygiene to ensure that the contagion did not spread to the white population.  The common thread throughout these three distinct episodes of time is that the Black population consistently receives the shorter end of the stick: be it civil liberty restrictions, increasing law enforcement issues, or health crises, and in all of these cases, the affected population is held back in society. While it may not be a deliberate government led movement, the existing underlying fear of the traditional racial hierarchy being overthrown may have led to the implementation of actions and inactions to maintain the Black population at a disadvantage, or to put it in layman’s terms: to punish people for belonging to the Black race. Thus, it may be concluded that the Virginia law contained, not only an anti-miscegenation statute, but also an anti- Black race statue. 
Attitudes Towards Mixed Children 
	The view of mixed children as “social evils” was curated in order to discourage interracial relationships and ensure the separation and hierarchy of the races. In the New Virginia Law To Preserve Racial Integrity, great care is taken to ensure that mixed children are not classified as white. These children are denounced for gaining acceptance into white schools considering that they “are not white in reality” and are “likely to revert back to distinctly negro type even when all apparent evidence of mixture has disappeared.”  In the wording of this law, mixed children are seen as the embodiment of the so-called inferior race hiding behind a supposedly white exterior. However, the attorney for the state of Virginia, McIlwaine, presented mixed children in a different light: he portrayed them as “the victims of intermarried parents and the martyrs of intermarried parents.”  McIlwaine attempts to reconcile the blatant discrimination in the law with the sympathies of the public for the children of intermarried couples. However, the reality for these children is explained by ACLU lawyer Hirschkop, “[This law] is more than a criminality that’s at point here, that the legitimacy of children right to inherent land, the many, many rights” constitute what is at stake while the Virginia law remains in effect.  Since the marriage of the parents of mixed children would not be recognized by the state of Virginia, the children would be denied being claimed by their parents as well as receiving inheritance, which leads into Hirschkop’s most controversial claim “that these laws are slavery laws were incepted to keep the slaves in their place.”   The New Virginia Law To Preserve Racial Integrity is being compared to the laws of the slavery era in America. While initially coming across as ridiculous, in slavery America, slaves could not legally marry and the children of slaves were not claimed by the parents, but rather became the property of the slave master.  In Virginia, at the time, neither mixed couples nor their children were recognized, as it was in the slavery era south. Thus, the pity McIlwaine attempts to arouse for the children of intermarried parents is struck down because it is the law which ensures that the children have limitations, for need to control the Black race. 
Conclusion
	At the time of the Loving v. Virginia case, the Black and Mixed races with regarded as inferior, but also with fear for the potential of them managing to break out of the inferior label and depriving the White race of its continued privilege. In 2018 America, neither the inferior label, nor the fear have diminished, with hate crimes occurring on a daily basis and little work being done to ensure that all races are on equal footing. However, Americans are also beginning to learn from history and instances like Loving v. Virginia to bring about a future built upon equality and strength, rather than racial strife and fear. 
